Three rough categories of races:
 
1. The Eldest races, the three original creations: Elves, Goliath, and Lizardfolk. These should feel a little stereotyped as to what classes they are good at. Goliath are warriors; Lizardfolk are nature-focused; elves are magical and graceful.
    1. Goliath traits: should encourage martials, or martial/casters using wisdom like melee clerics. Magic using goliath should tend towards cleric/druid, and as martials they should be optimized for strength-based attacks. Should have an option to make a strength monk more viable with an unarmored defense tweak (use STR instead of DEX for AC). Racial magic subclass would probably be a monk half caster focused on self buffs, or specialized cleric domain, or a variant warlock that is hexblade-y but self-buff focused and casting off WIS. Should feel non-optimized in DEX, CHA, INT based classes.
    2. Lizardfolk traits: should encourage WIS classes, especially druids and to a lesser extent rangers. Racial magic is focused on prophecy, divination, spirits. Magic using lizardfolk should strongly trend towards druid or cleric, and racial magic should have a divination/spirits/dreamworld/prophecy flavor.
    3. Elves are tricky: they should excel as arcane casters in particular; probably reasonable to have the high elves as wizards (+2 INT) and the halfborn as bards/sorcerers/warlocks (+2 CHA), perhaps with some variation between what we called "high Tayledras" and "regular Tayledras". Wood elves are tricky, I think they should support more melee / Dex archetypes. Elves in Taelgar are the first of the firstborn, they are strong and powerful, kind of like Tolkien elves in flavor in some ways. But I don't want them to be too versatile as that is also an advantage reserved for dwarves/halfings/humans, the younger races. I also don't necessarily want to pigeonhole elves by subraces in the traditional sense, e.g. wood elves and high elves don't necessarily live apart etc. Probably the solution is to go more like dwarves, with wood vs high being which firstborn you favor, and not really 'subraces'. Probably also need a third CHA-based subtype that would be the 'force of personality' elves and make for a powerful sorcerer or bard. Then there are the Peronar, who are kind of half-elf-y but try to build the base elf package to so it applies to them as well…
2. Next there are the younger races who still have a Firstborn, the dwarves and halflings. These should be more flexible with more options so you can make any kind of class with them, really, except perhaps for one weakness. Dwarves don't do too well with DEX focused classes (rogue, in particular); Halflings don't do too well with pure-STR martials (barbs, fighters) but would do find as ranged martials or paladins (with CHA). Halflings should  
**QUESTION: should there be a 'subrace' for every individual firstborn? E.g. 7 dwarves (yes already), two elves (yes already), lizardfolk (eh? One for each season? Seems a little much as what would the variety be?), goliath (fine, only 1), halfling (lore a bit squishy right now)**
 
1. Humans, of course, are the most versatile and flexible of any race.
 
Overall design goal should be to open up interesting playable space that is easiest to exploit with specific races and that fits their character. Also, should have a gradient of flexbility, with the younger races (humans, dwarves, halflings, peronar) feeling pretty flexible with regard to class and the elder races (elves, goliath, lizardfolk) feeling less flexible