# Map of Content

This directory contains information about how the vault is organized, including file structure, tags, and other metadata/front matter. It also contains information about how various frontmatter is used, and collections of pages to review and other cleanup auto-generated from frontmatter. 

## Metadata

Metadata is primarily used to control automatic header generation, and allow dataview/dataviewjs tables and lists, bases, and other forms of data queries, but some front matter is also used to communicate and track page information in various ways. Four pages describe how front matter is defined:

[[Metadata Specification]]: describes the full metadata specification; includes sections on whereabouts, campaignInfo, affiliations, and expected metadata for each basic note type. 
[[Display Control]]: describes how displayDefaults and substitution tokens allow flexible control of autogenerated headers
[[Note Categorization]]: describes the controlled vocabulary that defines note categories
[[Note Status]]: describes how status tags and dm information together communication information about the status of a page

## Vault Organization

[[Vault Organization]] contains information about the actual directory structure of the Vault and how it is used / organized. 

## Scripts and Code

[[Taelgarverse Code]]: contains information about Python and JavaScript code associated with header generation, dataviewJS queries, etc. 
[[Templates]]: describes templates that can be used, both for the Templater plugin and plain Markdown templates that can be copied and filled out. 

## Subdirectories

*Note: this is aspirational right now - these directories have not been updated or particularly rethought*

- Data Analysis: Contains various pages with queries that summarize counts of notes by different groupings of metadata. This is useful for seeing how metadata is used but typically does not link back to individual notes. 
- Data Cleaning: Contains various pages with queries that are meant to uncover bad data in various ways. These are generally speaking either notes that should have specific frontmatter but don't, or various kinds of bad or obsolete data. 
- Data Quality: Contains various pages with queries meant to uncover potentially missing things, or various other kinds of issues that don't rise to the level of major data issues 
- Queries: Contains examples of various useful dataview and dataviewjs queries that might be reused; also contains information about how to write new queries. (formerly "Examples")
- Pages to Review: Contains pages that need review in various ways, usually based on status tags and/or dm_notes. 