# Note Status
*last update: Dec 15th 2025*

An important component of a note (page) is its status, which encompasses completeness, accuracy, potential for future invention, and related topics. Note status is currently captured in two ways: using DM frontmatter, and using status tags. These are meant to work together. 

## DM Frontmatter

To facilitate cross-campaign sharing of information in Taelgarverse, two pieces of DM frontmatter are used:

### **dm_notes**

This is intended to reflect the extent to which there are non-shared, non-public notes in DM folders or other places (someone's head, for example) that add additional information to a page. There are three valid values of dm_notes:

- **none** implies there are no non-shared notes;
- **color** implies there are non-shared notes that might add color, but nothing that is fundamentally important to reusing the note;
- **important** implies that there are significant missing details that might make additional invention around this topic complicated in the absence of discussion. 

*dm_notes should only be used for private, non-shared information.* If all relevant information is in backlinks, dm_notes should always be "none", even if the backlinks are confusing or include a mix of brainstorming and canon. The dm_notes frontmatter, however, does not distinguish between private, non-shared digital notes (e.g., for Dunmar or Into the Chasm or other campaigns we both are in), old paper notes from high school, and simply unrecorded invention in someone's head. 

Special note about secrets: If all the information relevant to a page is captured in `%%SECRET[1]%%SECRET` text in a note. 

### **dm_owner**

This is intended to reflect the degree to which a particular person has plans for a thing, or has ideas that might constrain the direction of the thing, implying that they should be consulted regarding any planning involving the note. 

Valid values are mike, tim, player, joint, or none. Typically, `joint` has been used inconsistently and might require some rethinking. 

## Status Tags

Status tags are intended to track the extent to which a page is useably complete and correct. A page which doesn't have any status tags should be both useably complete and canonical, although this does not mean that all invented information about the page is captured. 

### check

`status/check` indicates that a page has details that may be incorrect and need to be checked.

- `check/name`: indicates the name is not settled and might change; if the name is of the format `~(name)~` that always implies `status/check/name` even if the tag is not present. 
- `check/ai`: indicates the text was auto-generated by AI but has not been reviewed. Treat with caution!
- `check/mike`, `check/tim`: indicates the page is staged for review and might have questions about what is canonical. *Should usually have a comment indicating what needs to be checked.*
- `check/fact`, `check/minor`, and other `check` tags: indicate some additional thing needs checking, usually a minor detail or internal consistency check. 

### gameupdate

`status/gameupdate` indicates that a page was correct at one point, but game events have intervened and this note is now out of date. 

Subtags define the relevant campaign:
`adma`: [[Addermarch Campaign]]
`clee`: [[Cleenseau Campaign]]
`dufr`: [[Dunmari Frontier Campaign]]
`gl`: [[Great Library Campaign]]
`chasm`: Into the Chasm mini-campaign

### needswork or incomplete

`status/needswork` and `status/incomplete` are legacy tags with unclear meaning but generally mean "this page might have errors of some kind, either incorrect details or incomplete where key information is missing that is necessary to use the page." Treat with caution!

### wip

`status/wip` is specifically reserved for pages with a particular format (e.g., region pages, species pages, history of X pages), where someone started reformatting and cleaning up but didn't finish. Does not necessarily imply anything additional by itself. 

### stub

`status/stub` should be reserved for pages with no detail, and can be removed from any page with complete headers and at least a minimal amount of content. 

### cleanup

`status/cleanup` is a legacy tag used for various kinds of "this note needs to be cleaned up" things. Might imply `gameupdate` or `wip` depending on the context, but should not imply errors. 
