For a minute, the room goes dark and you see Apollyon with his back turned. Like, again, it's from the perspective of the manacles. Apollyon with his back turned, standing by the forge. He's wearing the crown that you've seen Fasto have. And he's wearing the cloak. And he's banging on something. He's hammering something behind him on a forge, right? He's hammering. He's working some sort of metal. And every now and then he'll turn around. He's holding up like a partially forged dagger. And it looks very plain. Like there's nothing—you know the hilt is super plain. It's just straight iron. The blade looks like it has layers and layers of metal that's been beaten into it. And there's writing on the blade, which seems to be part of some incantation or spell. It's like, you know, there's no—it's not like saying anything specific. And then he's banging again and then he stops. And he takes like this sheet of this strange-looking metal. Actually, Seeker would recognize it. This is like adamantium. It's the metal you had. It's what holds the binding stone, or sorry, the phasing stone in place. Letters appear on this thin sheet of this metal. And then he puts the dagger down and he like wraps the metal around it. And he starts beating it again. This goes on for, you know, a while. It seems like he's just doing layer after layer. He's putting some spells on it and then beating something into the dagger. 

And then the scene shifts, and it seems some time later. And there is—like, you can't quite see what it is. But there's clearly a person chained in the manacles. But your perspective is looking towards the manacles. So you basically just see wrists. And then the wrists go limp. And you can see like slashes, the dagger slashing the wrists. And the blood runs down into the floor, like running down the arms. But there's some spark that runs into the dagger from the manacles. And this happens again and again. And the floor now, you can see this well in the middle. It's filling up with blood of like ten people. And it gets drying out and it gets darker and thicker as it dries out. And the mirror shifts again. And you can see now Apollyon standing, the manacles empty, and he is kneeling on the floor. The blood all dried except for in this very well in the center, which now looks black. And he draws a clear vial, like a potion vial, out from his robes. And he begins—the gems in the crown, there's like shadow flowing out of the crown into the blood. It begins to swirl. And this sort of dark black viscous liquid floats up and pours itself into the vial, which he then starves. And Seeker recalls that the lore of liches is typically that to become a lich, you need to create a phylactery. And then you need to make a potion. Somehow the rituals are not known, involving somehow the souls of the people who fed your phylactery. And when you drink the potion, you turn into a lich. The dagger is clearly the phylactery. Plain, unadorned, uninteresting dagger. The only notable fact is its blade is made of adamantium. 