The mirror goes black, and then the an image appears. You see a woman maybe mid-thirties -- is a little bit hard to say. She is wearing the silvery cloak that you just saw, otherwise dressed in sort of plain like simple robes. You can't see her hair too much underneath the cloak, but it seems to be short, dark, and tied back. She has green eyes and sort of lightly tan skin, and she's she's holding up the stone, and speaking into it. You don't recognize her, but she seems to be perched, standing above what might be the waterfall that you entered this cave from. She is crouching, clearly hiding. She takes out the silver wand and mutters a spell under her breath, and vanishes. 

Then the image jumps back. And you can see the same woman, now dressed in silk robes, vaguely Drankorian. She is sitting in a council, around a low table in the middle of an elaborate commander's tent. It is dark outside, but lively inside the tent. There are six people in addition to this woman, probably Drankorian, except for one, who is an elf. They seem to be having a heated discussion. Eventually, this woman stands up, and everyone quiets down as she speaks passionately, animatedly. Though you don't know what she is saying, eventually everyone begins to nod, and come to an agreement with whatever she was arguing for. The elf passes her the silvery cloak, and the sending stone (keeping its pair), and a small crystal vial, full, presumably containing universal solvent. The scene fades as everyone stands to hug the woman, shake her hand, wish her well, seeming to bid her luck on whatever adventure she was setting out on. 