During the two and a half day journey from Ashcombe to Aslain,  
Greymalkin does not seem himself. He is extremely solicitous of Robin,  
constantly making sure he is ok, has a good place to sleep, often  
insisting he ride, despite the fact that the group is moving quite  
slowly, and Greymalkin is already carrying more supplies than usual.  
  
But it seems important to Greymalkin, and Robin waits for him to be  
ready to explain. Late evening of the second day, Greymalkin speaks:  
  
"Robin. I should not have left you alone with those servants of Lord  
Umbraeth." His voice growls when he says Umbraeth, with a low rumble,  
like he is thinking about ripping out his throat. "I fear his servants  
may have recognized me, and taken it out on you. I shall not abandon  
you again, like that."  
  
He pauses. "Let me explain. I have not spoken of my life before I met  
you, for it is difficult. But if you are facing Umbraeth's servants,  
you must know."  
  
He tells you the following story:  
  
"More than six hundred and fifty years ago, to the south, the  
Cloudspinner, Queen of Sunsets ruled the fey realm of Amberglow. How I  
wish I had seen it in those days. It is said to have been a land where  
the glorious colors of the evening sun turned the sky and the grass  
and the water and the rocks to ever-changing paintings." He stops and  
shrugs in a way that points at his bright coloring. "It was a place  
aflame with color and joy, I am told. But she vanished - to where, no  
one knows - and the land decayed. The colors seeped out of it, and  
darkness and danger moved in. But not all was lost, for in pockets and  
hidden crannies, those loyal to the Cloudspinner kept hope alive. I  
was born in one of those pockets, known as the Refuge of the Gossamer  
Veil, in the days before the Great War, about 200 years ago. It was  
faded, but I was proud to be born there, to be the companion, advisor,  
and guide to my friend, Aelirios Sunblade, Guardian of the Gossamer  
Veil. Those were dangerous times, but ones of glory as well. The  
Sunblade and I flew amongst the clouds, defending our hidden home. But  
without the Cloudspinner, our borders were never safe. A day came when  
Lord Umbraeth, known as the Gloomshaper to some, grew greedy, and  
coveted our refuge.  
  
The rains came first. The storm clouds raced over our home, blotting  
out the setting sun, and the endless cold rains dampened the spirits.  
Then came the thorny bushes, the cursed trees that walked."  
  
He stops and ruffles his feathers in a way you have never seen,  
sadness and shame and despair all mixed together.  
  
"We could not stop him. Aelirios fell. The Gossamer Veil fell. It all  
fell. I failed my duty. My wings were shorn. I lost hope."  
  
He pauses.  
  
"Until I heard your calling in the darkness. A flare of daylight,  
driving away shadows. I felt the light of the Sunblade again. I felt  
my pride and purpose returning. Aelirios' light back in the world! I  
sprung forth from my despair and found you, and I will not fail  
again!"  (meta: he is pretty clearing referring to the Lantern of the  
Bright Hearth here, and in particular, the time Robin cast daylight  
from it and drove away the shadows]  
  
The determination fades a bit, and he returns to his normal self.  
  
"I expect the Duskhound recognized me. Perhaps the hunter as well,  
although I did not recognize him. We fought bravely that day, Aelirios  
and I, and made them pay dearly for their victory, and they can't have  
forgotten it."