## Information Blue Has Learned

- The Umbral Covenant were the aggressors in a war against the famous city of Chardon, call the War of the Dark Rift. This war was fought more than 100 years ago, and the Umbral Covenant were conclusively defeated in a naval encounter in the Bay of Chardon. 
- During the war, however, the Umbral Covenant captured much of the Apporian Peninsula (a penisula west of Chardon), and destroyed the dwarven kingdom of Enderra which had thrived in the interior mountains of the peninsula. 
- Many rumors suggest that the Umbral Covenant in fact started the war from somewhere, emerging in the middle of Enderra somehow. Some people claim the dwarves brought doom upon themselves by experimenting with dangerous magic. 
- Many of the soldiers in the army of the Umbral Covenant seemed to be some kind of corrupted shadow dwarves, nightmares of their former selves, now somehow turned to fight for their shadow masters. 
- There are scattered rumors of an earlier war against the Umbral Covenant, called the War of the Severed Dreams. The War of Severed Dreams was fought long ago, hundreds and hundreds of years ago, and little reliable information can be found. But what rumors exist hint that in this war, the Umbral Covenant fought against sleep itself, and drove their enemies mad with crushing insomnia. 
- There is a legend associated with the War of the Severed Dreams, that spoke of four heroes from Castrella (a city in Apporia; at the time of the War of the Severed Dreams it would have been small but growing fast): Atanza, Inor, Thusa, and Arippas. They never returned from the war, but there is a legend that speaks of how these four heroes fought to the center of the nightmare realm and battled the queen of the eternal waking, locking her in a dreamless coma where she could not again spread her madness. 
- Many poems describe the queen of the eternal waking as the Wolf-Queen. The Wolf-Queen is a common bogeyman in children's stories from Apporia, that speak of how if you don't behave, the Wolf-Queen will eat your dreams and you will die as your soul is starved. 