> (BTW, what is the actual cultural reason that people are so wary of wizards?  Is it that they are assumed to tend to go bad like the one in Viepuck’s backstory, reasons related to deep history, or what?)   

There is no one event or specific reason why wizards are distrusted in Sembara, but there is a long cultural tradition dating back hundreds of years that is suspicious of "learned magic" and in particular magic as something you study and unpack how it works and then use that knowledge to make more of it. Where exactly it developed none of you would know, but since the Great War, a number of events have occurred that enforce and seem to confirm the suspicion. The most notable was the story of Elaine I and her twin sister Anne, which is long and tragic and something I will write up in more detail sometime - but in is briefest form there was a contest for the throne between Elaine and Anne, and in the course of that contest Anne studied magic deeply so she could learn to cast a powerful geas to force Elaine to give up the throne. This ended up failing (was found out, and undone) but it was seen as a confirmation of the worst things about wizards. The year after Anne's treachery was the Cursed Cold, when for five months fire radiated cold, not heat, and the days grew colder, not warmer, as the sun rose. This devastated the areas it impacted (cooking and growing crops are both hard without heat) and was seen by many as somehow related to Anne's treachery and a cost the entire kingdom bore for her magic. 
  
(There is also the story of how Drankor fell, 700-ish years ago - a red mist that spread throughout the land killing millions - supposedly caused by the mages of Drankor, somehow - Drankor was obsessed as a civilization with understanding magic, or so it is said).

More broadly, there are other similar cultural stories that share the message: magic is something to worship, or be in awe of, or philosophize about, marvel at, accept as a gift, etc but studying how it works, unpicking the central mystery is seen as dangerous (choosing to mess around with forces you can't ever really understand), potentially nefarious (too many stories of research or other deep delving into the secrets of magic leading to corruption and evil, i.e. no one thinks Anne in the story above _started out_ bad), and in some cases, a little bit sacreligious (magic is a gift of the Sibyl, trying to learn magic is like trying to force your way into her good graces - that said, in Tollen the Sibyl is honored as the patron of magical study, and the big university in Tollen, amongst many other things, does host wizards and other scholars researching magic).

It wouldn't be right to oversell the prejudice either. Wizards are not hunted on sight, or anything like that. But many emigrate, i.e. to Tollen or Chardon, where magic is more accepted, and there are not many teachers, etc so they end up being rarer than other types of magic users. Interestingly, a wild magic sorcerer doesn't encounter the same prejudice, even though they may literally be dangerous to those around them - to a Sembaran, they were born with their magic, and so it isn't them choosing to be dangerous by delving into deep secrets. A lot of this also plays out more strongly with groups - scholarly organizations and secret societies dedicated to the study of magic just never really get established in Sembara and are fairly strongly discouraged. So a lone wizard in their tower taking an apprentice might be seen as a bit dangerous, a bit eccentric, but not someone you'd drive out of town - but an organized group of wizards trying to establish a school of magic is too dangerous and very well might get driven out.

These are broadly Tyrwinghan beliefs as well, although in Tyrwingha there would be the added wrinkle of the fey. Famously, Ethlenn wanted to learn Drankorian magical secrets, and that plays into this idea that exploring the deep secrets of how magic works is too dangerous for mortals, and is best left to the fey. This idea - that arcane research is best left to the fey - has certainly spread from Tyrwingha as well, and Sembarans would also express it.