---
tags: [meta]
---

After exploring the Tower of Records, Areschera's domain, the party and your witnesses move on to the Baroness' Tower. Unlike the Tower of Records, this tower is not empty of people, although it is not as full as normal.  
  
You enter through the main door, which brings you to a small guardroom and another door, beyond which is the central spiral staircase and two small sitting rooms. There is a guard in the guardroom, looking a bit tired and bored - guarding the Baroness' tower when she is away from the castle, especially during the day, is clearly not the most interesting job. She perks up a bit when you enter, and looks fascinated by the tale of the fey. On Perette's authority she happily allows you all to pass.

The guardroom itself is fairly sparse, with two small chairs and a bench, and a small table with an elegant glass vase full of dried flowers. Beyond the guardroom are two sitting rooms: both furnished with elegant couches and elaborate carved wooden chairs, as well as simple tapestries. One room appears to be dedicated to the Aslain family, the chairs are carved with the Aslain crest (a otter leaping out of a forked river). The other room has a collection of religious iconography although with no particular specific deity. One wall is blank, and Perette indicates a tapestry depicting symbols of the Night Queen was recently removed.

Going up the staircase to the second floor, this is the domain of Esme and Rene, the Baroness' niece and nephew. She is overseeing their education and upbringing and one of them will likely be her heir. There is one large bedroom, divided in half by a set of folding screens, which Esme and Rene share, a small library and study, and a tiny room where their tutor lives. The small library has an elegant hearth, two comfortable chairs, and a small collection of books, mostly on the history and rhetoric. One wall has an elaborate family tree of the Aslain family and another of the Sembaran royal family painted on it. There are two desks, and ink and quills and chalk carelessly left about. The tutor's room is spartan- a neat bed with heavy woolen blankets, some half-burned candles, and two small chests. They are both locked, and Perette indicates they are the tutor's private possessions so she does not have the key.

Esme and the tutor are traveling back to Aslain to visit Esme's father, but Rene is here. Half the room is clearly Esme's and half his. Esme has one small chest which Perette unlocks and which contains a small collection of dried flowers, some notes on the flora and fauna around Veltor in a rather bad hand, a couple of in-progress embroidery of roses, and a stunning pearl necklace. Otherwise, her wardrobe has the appropriate set of clothes for the niece and maybe heir to the Baroness, with perhaps a slight emphasis on flowers and nature. The bed is well made with fine linens and wools dyed in luxurious reds and greens. 

Rene - a young man of about 16 or so, thin, with soft brown eyes and an unruly explosion of curly black hair. He looks bookish. He stands hastily as you enter - almost leaping up from his bed (and Celyn thinks he might have been shoving something under the bed linens). "What's this then", he says, glancing at you all. He doesn't seem upset, mostly mild and curious.

[meta: I'm going to give you info on the rest of the floors to have more stuff to respond to, but you'll need to respond to Rene to search his half of the room. We could also save the Rene encounter for the game if people prefer]

The third floor is the Baroness' study and the private family dining room. The study is well organized, with about 30-50 books and scrolls on shelf, as well as a large oil portrait of a very well dressed black woman, in her mid-50s, labeled "Baroness Marguerite d'Aslain" set in a handsome golden frame. There are two large chests, one clearly also serving as a table, which is set with several heavy silver plates and a large cermanic bowl and a handful of comfortable wooden chairs, as well as two benches. Perette can open the chests, one of which contains woolen blankets, mostly. The other (smaller one) contains some blank pages and scribal materials as well as five dozen good beeswax candles. 

The family dining room has a large buffet with three sets of plates and diningware, that is also set with an elaborate copper basin - perhaps for serving wine, although it seems large? - as well as a table with setting for 8, decorated with three large candles and five small vases with dried flowers. 

The fourth floor is the Baroness' personal suites, which consist of a dressing room, a bedroom, and a small sitting room. All are furnished more plainly than any of the other rooms you have seen so far, and Perette indicates the Baroness is somewhat austure in her personal preferences. The dressing room has a wardrobe, a heavy locked chest (which contains a number of jewels of state, a tiara, a couple of pendants), and a second smaller chest, which is empty. Perette indicates the smaller chest is where the Baroness keeps correspondence and travelling coin, and likely she has brought its contents with her. The sitting room is dominated by a large painting on the wall of an black woman (the Baroness' mother, Perette says). The painting shows the woman bent over coughing, her face a mask of pain and wisdom, blood staining a cloth held to her mouth. There is a small desk and chair facing the portrait, and a couple of comfortable benches. The bedroom is dominated by a large and elaborately carved wooden four poster bed, but has little else in it, other than a simple vase with dried flowers on a bedside table, and a vibrant red heavy linen blanket folded on a bench against a window.

The fifth floor is the servants quarters, and is divided into two dormitories for the Baroness' personal servants (sleeping six in total - three bodyservants, two maids, and a footman and errand runner) and a tiny room where Perette stays. There is not much of interest here amongst the personal belongings of the servants, although the footman, both maids, and two of the body servants are here and could be interviewed.