# Discord DM – 2023-10-29

[2023-10-29 05:02 PM] Deciusmus: I'm working on some cleanup of Sembaran history... My PCs are going to expore some ruins underneath Cleenseau and I wanted to have a clearer picture of what the ruins might be from...
[2023-10-29 05:05 PM] Deciusmus: what do you think of the following short narrative of hobgoblins
    
    After the death of Cha'mutte there were two major hobgoblin hordes: one in the north and one in the south.
    
    The southern horde was more badly damaged from the Great War itself, the plagues, and other activities, and rapidly split into two major clans: The Bitter Knife clan, who fought a thirty year war with the Dunmari before being defeated, and the Iron Fang clan, who pushed north and were mostly defeated by Sembara, but also settled on the edges of the Plaguelands.
    
    The northern horde mostly pushed south to Chardon, but a smaller part (the Shattered Ice clan) regrouped and then attempted over the 1550s and 1560s to cross the Sentinal Range into Sembara. These were mostly pushed back by the dwarves and highland kingdoms in the 1550s and early 1560s.
    
    In the 1570s, however, this remanent regroups, perhaps with some hobgoblins being pushed east by Chardon, and attacks in alliance with mind-flayers in the west of Sembara. This is the First Hobgoblin War. It ends somewhat inconclusively, with the mind-flayers kept out of main Sembaran terrority but the hobgoblins clearly still a threat.
    
    In the 1580s, they burst west again, overwhelming the Sembaran defenses and establishing the Dominion of `<Something>`
    
    By 1600, the remanents of the Chardonian hordes were regrouping in the southern Sentinel Range, under the banner of the Blackened Claw. The (much larger) remenants of the Shattered Ice clan had established dominion over a broad swath of land from the Sentinel Range along the headwaters of the Enst and as far east as the edge of the Mostreve Hills on the borders of Addermarch.
[2023-10-29 05:05 PM] Deciusmus: Between 1603 and 1610 the Dunmari pushed the Blackened Claw north and east, and by 1610, the situation is:
    
    * The land between the Sentinel Range and the Istaros, south of the Masance and the Andonne Rivers is a no-man's land, and scattered bands of hobgoblins mostly from the defeated Blackened Claw and Iron Fang clans roam here, but there are no large established kingdoms
    * The  Dominion of `<Something>` rules from the height of the eastern borders of the Elderwood, across the Sentinel Range, and across the headwaters of the Enst as far as the western Mostreve Hills on the borders of Adderfell
    * The Duchy of Maseau is surrounded by hobgoblins and largely cut off from Sembara in the north
    
    For a generation, from 1610 - 1647, an uneasy peace lasts in the region between Sembara and the Dominion of Ice. Sembara pays tribute at times, and the Rangers and others in Maseau wage a endless war of destabilization, trying to keep the hobgoblins disorganized. Leadership within the hobgoblin kingdom is weak. This is also a period when Maseau expands southward. The Great South Road connecting to Tokra is built at this time.
    
    In 1647, the year before Cece comes to the throne, the fourth hobgoblin war errupts as new leadership within the Dominion of Ice turns to conquest pushing up the Enst as far as Fellburn before being turned back by Cece, newly raised to the throne.
    
    In a series of campaigns over several years, Cece rapidly pushes the hobgoblins back, and by 1652 no hobgoblins remain west of Enford. The wall between Dunmore and Enford is built at this time.
[2023-10-29 05:09 PM] Deciusmus: Im not sure I’m happy with the length of time where the hobgoblins are around between 1590 and 1648 though, seems like too long to have parts of western sembara ruled by a hobgoblin kingdom
[2023-10-29 05:15 PM] rsulfuratus: haven't given much thought to hobgoblins around Sembara after the Great War. a few key facts though, specifically about the west and the south where I have given this more thought
[2023-10-29 05:16 PM] rsulfuratus: first, to set the stage, Cha'mutte commanded the loyalty of almost all significant hobgoblin groups in the lead up to the great war, and during the great war. as part of this, he protected large numbers of hobgoblins in the north around pandar, sustaining them magically. there were other hobgoblins around, presumably - some on the northern border of dunmar, some to the east, etc
[2023-10-29 05:17 PM] rsulfuratus: when Cha'mutte is killed, the very large hobgoblin kingdom/civilization living in pandar is left without enough food to survive, and begins to march south, conquering as they go.
[2023-10-29 05:19 PM] rsulfuratus: they split into two armies, more or less. the eastern army is led by a conclave of dragons, and conquers through the kingdoms of the elves and denoqai. defeated outside chardon in 1556, largely leaving behind devasted lands
[2023-10-29 05:19 PM] Deciusmus: (As an aside, what I’m really trying to do is have Cleenseau have been a significant military post in the 1580s that was overrun at some point and abandoned and then refounded in the early 1650s)
[2023-10-29 05:20 PM] rsulfuratus: the western army is more deliberate moving through human lands, establishing a series of hobgoblin kingdoms, perhaps under the overlordship of a high king or something (details not super relevant) through the 1550s. defeated by chardon as well (in my notes have this actually in 1551, but probably would realistically be a decade or more later)
[2023-10-29 05:21 PM] rsulfuratus: but this is just a retreat, not a full defeat, since there are hobgoblin kingdoms to retreat to.
[2023-10-29 05:21 PM] rsulfuratus: over the next 50 years or something, chardon slowly marches north, freeing the surviving human populations from hobgoblin rule
[2023-10-29 05:21 PM] rsulfuratus: haven't worked out the details
[2023-10-29 05:22 PM] rsulfuratus: (except in context of mawar, where the mawar renaissance was in the early 1600s, so hobgoblin threat must be largely gone by then, but chardon dominance not yet fully established)
[2023-10-29 05:23 PM] rsulfuratus: in any case, postulating a serious split in cha'mutte's armies between these eastern and western branches, the timing would work for the survivors of eastern army to flee over the mountains in the 1570s-1580s
[2023-10-29 05:24 PM] rsulfuratus: this all works with your shattered ice clan and then a war in the 1580s on the western frontier of sembara
[2023-10-29 05:24 PM] Deciusmus: Right. Although my earlier history has a series of@hobgoblin attacks in the late 1550s that are ignored by the crown and lead to the independence of the highland kingdoms. But that isn’t introduced in game anywhere maybe it should be something other than hobgoblins
[2023-10-29 05:25 PM] rsulfuratus: lots of things that could be
[2023-10-29 05:25 PM] Deciusmus: Probably making it not hobgoblins is more interesting actually
[2023-10-29 05:27 PM] Deciusmus: So the first serious incursion of hobgoblins to Sembara in the 1570s under Wissym (which is actually hobgoblins commanded by mindflayers ala the original@one shot)
[2023-10-29 05:27 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah
[2023-10-29 05:28 PM] rsulfuratus: so then in the south you have the bitter knife wars in the 1550s-1580s; the bitter knife clan is the most serious remnant of cha'mutte's southern armies, but is completely defeated by dunmar in the 1580s (ish)
[2023-10-29 05:30 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I took that from your Dunmar doc which had the war ending in 1576
[2023-10-29 05:30 PM] rsulfuratus: however many hobgoblins end up in the plaguelands and the rough terrain to the east
[2023-10-29 05:30 PM] Deciusmus: Right
[2023-10-29 05:30 PM] rsulfuratus: these organize various incursions where they can. the blackened claw is one of the more successful
[2023-10-29 05:32 PM] Deciusmus: Ah, ok. I thought the blackened claw came from Chardon.
[2023-10-29 05:33 PM] rsulfuratus: haven't figured out what happened to the western hobgoblin kingdoms; would prefer to leave that undetermined for now. you might learn more when you go after the piece of rai under the ocean off the coast of that peninsula
[2023-10-29 05:33 PM] rsulfuratus: but chardon would have not let any escape south, i don't think
[2023-10-29 05:34 PM] Deciusmus: Sure. Actually by moving the 1550s/1560s to non hobgoblin simplifies sembara dramatically
[2023-10-29 05:35 PM] Deciusmus: Basically the hobgoblins driven east from Chardon become the shattered ice clan and cause major trouble in 1570s - 1590s.
[2023-10-29 05:36 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2023-10-29 05:38 PM] rsulfuratus: i think there could be some tension among the hobgoblins - you have a faction that was more on the violent/revenge side, susceptible to manipulation by mind flayers, and faction that is more refugee / wants a place to settle
[2023-10-29 05:38 PM] rsulfuratus: after mind flayer war and the stone titan one-shot, you have a bit of stalement and wars back and forth with sembara, but eventually the refugee side makes peace
[2023-10-29 05:39 PM] Deciusmus: The bit I am struggling with is just that the timeline above has the hobgoblins in 1580-1590 and I want Cece to (a) come to power in 1650ish (b) defeat the hobgoblins as she comes to power
[2023-10-29 05:39 PM] rsulfuratus: right that is why i'm thinking internal tension in hobgoblins
[2023-10-29 05:40 PM] rsulfuratus: the 1580 war is driven by the warmongers, who want to reclaim what was promised by cha'mutte, who escaped the defeat against chardon
[2023-10-29 05:40 PM] rsulfuratus: mind flayers use them to launch their war. mind flayers are defeated, and hobgoblins lose but perhaps not all the territory they conquered
[2023-10-29 05:41 PM] rsulfuratus: after a decade of a frozen conflict / border skirmishs, perhaps with hobgoblins gaining territory, you have an uneasy peace
[2023-10-29 05:41 PM] rsulfuratus: this lasts until 1640 or something
[2023-10-29 05:42 PM] rsulfuratus: a new leader comes to power in the hogoblin kingdom (a series of bad winters leads to widespread food shortages, or whatever)
[2023-10-29 05:43 PM] rsulfuratus: this new leader launches a war for territory, breaking whatever treaties they had
[2023-10-29 05:43 PM] rsulfuratus: sembara decides they can't leave a hobgoblin kingdom on their borders
[2023-10-29 05:44 PM] rsulfuratus: of course this changes cece a bit, the second hobgoblin wars. gives them a bit more of a retaliatory flavor, rather than a pure fight for survival
[2023-10-29 05:45 PM] Deciusmus: I actually kinda like her with a bit of nationalist flavor
[2023-10-29 05:48 PM] rsulfuratus: could leave exactly what happened in the domanion of whatever undecided / unclear - leaving open the possibility that e.g. another hobgoblin group under the leadership of some non-hobgoblin entity drove the leadership turnover
[2023-10-29 05:48 PM] Deciusmus: But also it is possible that her predecessor launches the war. Things degenerate in the years before he reign, etc. so she comes to power in the midst of a war sembara started but one sembara id losing
[2023-10-29 05:50 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that could work well
[2023-10-29 05:52 PM] Deciusmus: I also like leaving why it started a bit vague. It was say 1639, which is 90 years ago from my game. No reason a clear description of why it started would be around
[2023-10-29 05:58 PM] Deciusmus: Right so to summarize, from the perspective of Sembara, after 1549 when the Iron Fang clan is defeated in the Mostreve Hills, no hobgoblins threaten the borders until in 1574, the Shattered Ice Clan, fleeing defeat by Chardonian forces in the west, crosses the Sentinel Range, and in alliance (or subservient to) the mind-flayers, appears
[2023-10-29 06:01 PM] Deciusmus: This, the First Hobgoblin War, ends in 1578, with the defeat of the mind flayers. But Sembara is not unified or strong enough to push the advantage and a substantial remanent of the Shattered Ice clan establishes a homeland just south of Urlich and in the upper headwaters of the Enst
[2023-10-29 06:08 PM] Deciusmus: For the next decade, the Shattered Ice clan skirmishes with Sembaran knights on the borders, and slowly expands their territory, pushing especially a wedge south of the Enst between Maseau and Sembara
[2023-10-29 06:13 PM] Deciusmus: In 1590, in alliance with some of the scattered clans of hobgoblins south of the Andonne, the Shattered Ice clan launches an attack on Maseau. Elaine I, the queen of Sembara at the time, refuses to abandon Maseau and embroils Sembara in the war
[2023-10-29 06:57 PM] Deciusmus: The Second Hobgoblin War lasts from 1590 until 1602. At the end of it, the hobgoblins control a swath of territory fairly far East from the mountains. But the war faction of the hobgoblins have been defeated and exhaustion sets in.
[2023-10-29 06:58 PM] Deciusmus: An uneasy peace is established and the border starts to be fortified (need to look at the map to see where the border would be exactly, but Cleenseau is near it)
[2023-10-29 07:00 PM] Deciusmus: This uneasy peace lasts for a generation, but it is never truly peaceful. Skirmishes frequently break out.
[2023-10-29 07:02 PM] Deciusmus: In 1644, something happens TBD and Sembara starts a new war with the hobgoblins. But it doesn’t go well. By 1647 the hobgoblin army has swept east almost as far as Fellburn.
[2023-10-29 07:02 PM] Deciusmus: (Cleenseau is conquered by the hobgoblins at this point)
[2023-10-29 07:03 PM] Deciusmus: Cece raises and army and pushes the hobgoblins out over a series of campaigns and by 1650 the hobgoblins have been pushed into the deep mountains. Cece stops there, fortifies the borders, and turns to internal affairs
[2023-10-29 07:13 PM] rsulfuratus: That seems about right. Would be good to summarize in the obsidian docs
[2023-10-29 07:13 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah working on that
[2023-10-29 07:14 PM] Deciusmus: I also revamped the sembaran royal dates
[2023-10-29 08:48 PM] Deciusmus: I pushed a rough draft of the history above, plus some cleaned up dates
[2023-10-29 09:21 PM] rsulfuratus: great. i really need to organize an overall timeline at some point

