# Discord DM – 2023-11-05

[2023-11-05 12:11 PM] rsulfuratus: thinking more about elven society, trying to get a vision of orenlas. here is kind of my framework, but interested in your perspective if anything seems "un-elvish" to you.
[2023-11-05 12:22 PM] rsulfuratus: 1. synthesizing the email discussion about material abundance, intellectual property, what elves see as wealth, etc. 
    
the basic framework is that elves are capable, via magic, of growing nearly anything, but this is not necessarily simple or easy in all cases. growing enough food and providing simple clothes, space to live, basic necessities, for all elves is the first priority, and except when under attack or otherwise disrupted from the normal balance of things, this is always possible and a fundamental aspect of elven civilization. there is no poverty in elven cities

that said, this does not mean there are no differences in wealth. while elves find no reason to accumulate coin or gems in their raw form, they do value new things that are brought into the world, whether ideas/songs/stories/poems or physical things of beauty, or of practical value (although I think elven culture would usually tend towards beauty). building on the idea from the sisila tree fruit backstory from Delwath, one thing that determines wealth is that it is a privilege to be allowed to use rare materials. so you can't buy sisila fruit with money, but if you are recognized as a talented chef you are given one to bake with. 

exactly how this kind of resource allocation is managed in elven society can be handwaved a bit, but the key vibes aspect is that there are wealthy/non-wealthy elves in some sense, but wealth is measured in what you create. so a "poor" jeweler may often work with plain metals, and a "rich" jeweler may have the opportunity to craft in [[mithril]]. but there is also a "how far have your creations spread" aspect, and this is how you "get rich" - a "poor" jeweler who produces amazing designs in bronze and copper may get asked to make something with gold or mithral. 
    
this ties in to intellectual property too, as derivative work is less valued that new work

[2023-11-05 12:28 PM] rsulfuratus: I think the details of this are a bit unnecessary to really know, but the implications in game would be:
    1. elves would sometimes trade for material goods, as material abundance does not necessarily mean lack of scarcity entirely - but they wouldn't *need* to do it
    2. you still have a kind of status hierarchy based around perceived value of the new things you bring into the world. as a side note, this sets up a bit of dichotomy where "creators" are higher status than "doers". So Delwath, as a solider and quartermaster, would not necessarily be seen as a high status elf (although perhaps this is also a consequence of the great war - in the absence of war perhaps he would have been an amazing chef). i'm not sure this is exactly right, so maybe there is kind of a second, orthogonal hierarchy that is more oriented around caretaker roles, so you can be high status because you are a skilled commander or a talented wizard and not necessarily need to create something new
    3. elven cities would feel weird to other races - there aren't markets in the usual sense, people aren't really buying food. there would be trees with fruit just kind of there, for example. maybe there would be occasional art shows, and lots of songs and storytelling, and things like that that would have subtle undercurrents of competition noticeably primarily to other elves
[2023-11-05 12:38 PM] rsulfuratus: 2. on governance and society

the basic idea here I think is a bit more established, around the nurturer/caretaker distinction, the unifiers and the "trial of unity" idea, and the idea of each ka as kind of a collective unit that figures out how to reach consensus on their own

the game implications are, I think:
1. you can't go to an elven city and say "take me to your leader" - there is no galadriel or elrond to speak to. however, I think that most elven settlements would have some people who are the outerward face of the community to visitors. perhaps with explicit titles like "Caretaker So-and-So". 
2. if you are asking something of "elves" it should be a little unclear how decisions are made, although there is an opportunity to create a way to participate in a "trial by unity" if desired
3. there should probably not be a lot of internal, obvious factions in elvish society, except during times of debate and consensus-finding, and then those factions would be temporary. this is probably not a universal rule - decision points have to start somewhere and may start with a factional period. but once it is resolved, it is resolved.
[2023-11-05 12:38 PM] rsulfuratus: adding this to worldbuilding/brainstorming as well
[2023-11-05 02:31 PM] Deciusmus: I like all this
[2023-11-05 02:35 PM] Deciusmus: A few other thoughts — I think a lot of this — especially the creator stuff — would move on scales that make it hard for humans to observe. There is probably rarely a rush and a lot of time spent contemplating and so on
[2023-11-05 02:39 PM] Deciusmus: So for example an elven poetry recital might seem odd to a human in a couple of ways— it might take a couple of days rather than a night, and reactions might be considered and take a week or two or more to come out
[2023-11-05 02:39 PM] Deciusmus: Not sure.. thinking a bit
[2023-11-05 06:59 PM] Deciusmus: So… forget the above. I think it isn’t interesting. I think you have it about right, but I’d make one tweak.
[2023-11-05 07:08 PM] Deciusmus: Basically here’s my view of the PCs arriving in an elf city and attending a banquet.  

Unlike in a human city, where the banquet would be put on by some lord/baron/whatever, in the elven city it is probably put on by someone the community values highly. A creator of some sort. 

Maybe in this case a famous chef is throwing a banquet to celebrate a rare nectar that is aged for 3 ka and is being unveiled. 

Who attends? It isn’t the “rich” as that isn’t entirely meaningful. Perhaps the chef invites a poet, who has agreed to present a new poem in the chef’s honor. A jewel smith is also in attendance in exchange for a delicate ring, which is presented as a gift to the chef before the meal (so everyone can admire the jewel smith). Of course some of the chefs friends are there as well, perhaps without any particular gifts.
[2023-11-05 07:09 PM] Deciusmus: But I’m not sure it would feel like a status competition exactly
[2023-11-05 07:10 PM] Deciusmus: How did the chef get the rare nectar to begin with? Probably via a consensus process more than anything else. The rare materials go to those who can make the best use of them
[2023-11-05 07:11 PM] Deciusmus: Or rather can create the best thing with them
[2023-11-05 07:12 PM] Deciusmus: And of course, plenty of elves are “middle class” and wouldn’t have any great talents - and would rarely if ever attend such fancy banquets
[2023-11-05 07:14 PM] Deciusmus: But I think an outsider would see it all as glittering and amazing and impressive - an “fancy” elven banquet would be filled with the best creators
[2023-11-05 07:21 PM] Deciusmus: As far as status, it’s perfectly normal for government agents or even generals to be middling rather than high status… and given there is no low status or poverty why would a commander necessarily be high status?
[2023-11-05 07:22 PM] Deciusmus: Now, gratitude is a real thing and a famous solider who was known to say have saved a bunch of elves would certainly have an “in”
[2023-11-05 07:23 PM] rsulfuratus: right, this is what I was getting at with "orthogonal hierarchy"
[2023-11-05 07:24 PM] rsulfuratus: it isn't the same as being rich, in a sense, but there are many ways to being respected
[2023-11-05 07:24 PM] Deciusmus: Right. I just don’t think elven society is particularly status conscious
[2023-11-05 07:24 PM] rsulfuratus: true
[2023-11-05 07:25 PM] rsulfuratus: but in your banquet example, perhaps the famous solider is also there - not because they are necessarily friends with the chef, or have anything valuable to present to demonstrate their creative prowess, but simply as a gesture of gratitude and acknowledgement
[2023-11-05 07:26 PM] Deciusmus: I do think there are glittering banquets and famous painters who having a portrait from them is something a bunch of elves want. But then other elves maybe are more interested in listening to Aldanors roots and spend years “not doing much” as far as humans would see it
[2023-11-05 07:26 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah that makes sense
[2023-11-05 07:27 PM] Deciusmus: I do think the more material focused elves who be the ones “outsiders” see more. It’s easier to observe the unveiling of a famous painting or a jeweler presenting an orate set of earrings
[2023-11-05 07:27 PM] rsulfuratus: sure
[2023-11-05 07:30 PM] Deciusmus: Anyway I think your vibe is basically right, the main comment I really had is that I’m not sure elves are particularly obsessed with status. So I think the poetry reading would be more about being good and honoring the material and bringing something new into the world, and less about one-upping another elf
[2023-11-05 07:30 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, that makes sens
[2023-11-05 07:30 PM] rsulfuratus: `*`sense
[2023-11-05 07:31 PM] Deciusmus: Of course if a famous goldsmith was in attendance and one of the poets particularly wanted a new set of golden candlesticks, then the poet might be trying to impress the goldsmith
[2023-11-05 07:32 PM] Deciusmus: And an aspiring goldsmith needs to impress the community to be seen as “worthy” of working in a scare resource (gold)
[2023-11-05 07:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess one thing to think about is who is collecting all this art - some of it is maybe made for the artist, or for the community, but is any art collected? is it only by other artists?
[2023-11-05 07:36 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess this is in part what I was thinking about w/r/t other hierarchies of status - does a famous diplomat or solider or other kind of hero/adventurer come home and end up with wealth in the form of gifts?
[2023-11-05 07:36 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, probably.
[2023-11-05 07:37 PM] Deciusmus: And I think even a “middle-class” elf would have some art. After all, to gain a name for yourself you’d want to give away some works
[2023-11-05 07:40 PM] Deciusmus: And also, beauty is I think important to elven culture
[2023-11-05 07:41 PM] Deciusmus: But also it isn’t obvious they would want it. Maybe gardens are their thing not art. Or song, and they are honored by having some songs dedicated to them
[2023-11-05 07:42 PM] rsulfuratus: sure, of course
[2023-11-05 07:42 PM] rsulfuratus: on a separate topic, looking at the timing of leya and mela, I think it probably needs to be the case that these aren
[2023-11-05 07:42 PM] rsulfuratus: `*`aren't hard and fast dates, but rather have some flexibility
[2023-11-05 07:43 PM] rsulfuratus: e.g., right now the leya of the 36th ka starts in 1547, two years after the great war begins
[2023-11-05 07:43 PM] rsulfuratus: but it makes a lot more sense for that generation to have been "rushed" and underwent the Rite of Awakened 10 years early
[2023-11-05 07:44 PM] Deciusmus: Right, well, ultimately it’s literally something Aldanor and Elmerca are doing
[2023-11-05 07:45 PM] Deciusmus: So they could have changed the timing
[2023-11-05 07:47 PM] Deciusmus: But I don’t think elves themselves can change it. Although I think the leya isn’t actually physiologically as important as the mela.
[2023-11-05 07:47 PM] rsulfuratus: the way I've been thinking about it in sketching out history is the following:
    1. the mela starts every 160 years, like clockwork. the rooting of aldanor grows stronger in the few years before the mela begins, and by the beginning of the mela elves are feeling the pull of Aldanor's roots and their connection to Taelgar. sometimes this lasts 10 years, sometimes 20.
    2. elven childhood, the time of dreaming, is usually 50 years, but sometimes it is 35, and sometimes 60. the leya is traditionally marked as when the first elven children begin to experience the Rite of Awakening
    3. the first few years of the leya often have a gradual pace of awakening, but sometimes everyone awakens all at once. Elmerca, who controls prophecy and foresight, also controls the timing of the leya and can shift the dreams of the sleepers as needed
[2023-11-05 07:48 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I like that
[2023-11-05 07:48 PM] rsulfuratus: the advantage of this is for worldbuilding is that we don't have to constantly adjust the dates of each ka, which are counted from the start of the mela, but have flexibilty for the role of the elves in the world by shifting the leya
[2023-11-05 07:48 PM] rsulfuratus: so the leya dates in the cycle of generations doc could be shifted by 15 years or so in either direction, but the mela dates shouldn't change
[2023-11-05 07:49 PM] Deciusmus: Right. That makes sense. I also think each individual elf has a different length of time in the dreaming. Because kids are born over say a 15-20 year span, but the awakening is more of a 2-3 year span
[2023-11-05 07:50 PM] Deciusmus: The older kids just spend longer in the dreaming.
[2023-11-05 07:50 PM] rsulfuratus: exactly
[2023-11-05 07:50 PM] Deciusmus: Elves probably find the idea of counting age a bit odd anyway. It would be meaningless to Delwath to say he is 263 years old or whatever.
[2023-11-05 07:50 PM] Deciusmus: (Which I think kind fits how I’ve been playing him anyway)
[2023-11-05 07:51 PM] rsulfuratus: putting aside strangeness with the shadow realm, I think delwath would say he is in his 2nd leya
[2023-11-05 07:51 PM] rsulfuratus: if anyone pressed him on his age
[2023-11-05 07:52 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, or he’d translate from human years from the start of the ka in which he was born
[2023-11-05 07:52 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2023-11-05 07:52 PM] rsulfuratus: (which is 1467 - for the 36th ka. but I just changed the start of the 36th leya to 1532)
[2023-11-05 07:53 PM] Deciusmus: But actually Delwath never experienced a mela. This return to Orenlas would be his first time returning to an elven place since he left for war in the 1532
[2023-11-05 07:54 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2023-11-05 08:01 PM] rsulfuratus: when does aurbez become a thing? and have you given any thought to the role of e.g. the rangers in the hobgoblin wars?
[2023-11-05 08:03 PM] Deciusmus: I have not really thought much about the rangers. I keep kind of forgetting about them
[2023-11-05 08:03 PM] Deciusmus: Although I have a few things in the Sembara notes where they show up
[2023-11-05 08:03 PM] Deciusmus: I think they suffer somewhat in the end of the Great War, a lot of them die. I really liked what we came up with the other day around them being originally Insinguen
[2023-11-05 08:03 PM] rsulfuratus: I don't think of them as really directly connected to Sembaran history
[2023-11-05 08:04 PM] Deciusmus: So I think they are mostly active in Maseau / Addermarch / Tyrwingha
[2023-11-05 08:04 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, exactly
[2023-11-05 08:04 PM] rsulfuratus: they are really more about the plaguelands than anything else
[2023-11-05 08:05 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah
[2023-11-05 08:05 PM] Deciusmus: As far as Aurbez, my Ausson's Crossing mini-series was set in 1688, and Aurbez was a not-yet-realized idea
[2023-11-05 08:05 PM] Deciusmus: But I don't know if that has to be canonical
[2023-11-05 08:07 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that is good, I think before the victories in the 3rd hobgoblin war it would have been challenging to have much settlement in aurbez
[2023-11-05 08:07 PM] rsulfuratus: some outlanders scratching out a living, that kind of thing, but not really even villages
[2023-11-05 08:07 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, I had the 1688 vibe be "very new frontier"
[2023-11-05 08:08 PM] rsulfuratus: I think people would have started moving there during the Peace of Cece, that is what marks, roughly, the "end' of the southern hobgoblin threat. (except the mad scientists)
[2023-11-05 08:10 PM] Deciusmus: Right, but that's basically 1650. I am not sure when say, the road was built
[2023-11-05 08:10 PM] Deciusmus: And it is possible also that south of Maseau was actually safer in the early 1600s
[2023-11-05 08:11 PM] Deciusmus: Than north of Maseau I mean
[2023-11-05 08:11 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2023-11-05 08:11 PM] Deciusmus: So you could actually have the initial "population boom" (still small, but) happen in the 1590s - 1610s as people flee south from the Shattered Ice Clan
[2023-11-05 08:12 PM] rsulfuratus: not sure the details matter exactly right now, just trying to get a rough picture of what an elf who fought at the Battle of Urlich Monastery but then didn't return home for the next mela (in 1627) would have been doing if they basically hung around as a solider in the west/southern marches of sembara from 1545-1700 or so
[2023-11-05 08:14 PM] rsulfuratus: the rangers are an obvious place for a lone elf solider, but not sure exactly what they would have been doing after the [[bloodlust wars]], the [[blood plague]], and all the chaos of the 1550s
[2023-11-05 08:14 PM] Deciusmus: I'd say they would have ended up in Maseau and then the rangers.
[2023-11-05 08:15 PM] Deciusmus: There is a ton of stuff in the Chronicle of Sembaran histor that isn't in the timeline yet
[2023-11-05 08:15 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe the rangers as beryl knew them don't really survive the blood years intact - they were invovled in dealing with the [[blood plague]], for example
[2023-11-05 08:15 PM] rsulfuratus: a few people who remember the sacred springs of isingue or whatever keep the knowledge alive
[2023-11-05 08:16 PM] Deciusmus: Although actually the main bit that would be relevant was the magic going wrong around the 1580s
[2023-11-05 08:16 PM] Deciusmus: at the end of the doc
[2023-11-05 08:16 PM] rsulfuratus: right, that too
[2023-11-05 08:16 PM] Deciusmus: I think a core of relatively powerful rangers escaped Isingue and the plagues and death likely with Beryl's help, and established themselves in Maseau in the 1546
[2023-11-05 08:16 PM] Deciusmus: and then rebuilt the organization, which was otherwise basically gone
[2023-11-05 08:17 PM] rsulfuratus: right, I guess the key thing is the continuity of knowledge going back to isingue about the sacred waters and such
[2023-11-05 08:17 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, I think there should be something there, although it could be knowledge kept relatively secret
[2023-11-05 08:18 PM] Deciusmus: As far as your elf, the 1550s - 1602 has lots going on. I haven't written a history of Maseau, but they were a key part of the hobgoblin wars as well and were somewhat abandoned/cut off from Sembara and forced to stand on their own. Very much the kind of place that a elf might have been a key figure in
[2023-11-05 08:19 PM] Deciusmus: Then in the early 1600s Sembara makes peace with the Shattered Ice Clan. But the 2nd Hobgoblin War, I think, was one where the hobgoblins explicitly wanted Maseau as a buffer
[2023-11-05 08:19 PM] rsulfuratus: I'll look at the actual doc, I was just looking at the timeline. I know we shifted some dates around for the timeline but should be easy to recalibrate
[2023-11-05 08:20 PM] Deciusmus: the more interested bit is after 1650
[2023-11-05 08:20 PM] Deciusmus: I think by 1650, Maseau is pretty peaceful. The border has moved south and west
[2023-11-05 08:21 PM] Deciusmus: But the stretch of lands between Maseau and Cleenseau is still relatively wild, and a solo elf might have gotten into various adventures there. Or they could have gone south towards Aurbez, which I think is where a lot of the rangers started going. The Ardonne river is choked with ash. Why? Etc.
[2023-11-05 08:21 PM] Deciusmus: Adderfell is also a good possibility, in the post 1650 period
[2023-11-05 08:22 PM] Deciusmus: The timeline in Chronicle doc is not aligned with the timeline in Timeline btw
[2023-11-05 08:28 PM] rsulfuratus: wasn't beryl a pretty good painter?
[2023-11-05 08:28 PM] rsulfuratus: next sesion is going to kind of be the Mike show
[2023-11-05 08:35 PM] Deciusmus: yes, he was
[2023-11-05 08:35 PM] rsulfuratus: you might have to describe one of his paintings next session fyi
[2023-11-05 08:36 PM] Deciusmus: ok 🙂
[2023-11-05 08:36 PM] Deciusmus: btw, I was wondering if we should retcon the Urlich to be a pass not a monastery, or at least make the monastery secret/mystical rather than something people talk about
[2023-11-05 08:37 PM] Deciusmus: (maybe it was always secret?)
[2023-11-05 08:37 PM] rsulfuratus: i mean it was lifted straight out of a dungeon magazine adventure, which I think we played, and then I just reused the location for the final battle
[2023-11-05 08:38 PM] rsulfuratus: I don't remember much lore about why there was a monastery in a pass or whether the monasety was secret or not
[2023-11-05 08:38 PM] rsulfuratus: but very easily could just be ulrich pass
[2023-11-05 08:38 PM] rsulfuratus: oh maybe there was some connection to the dwarven firstborn and the underground adventure to the proto-heart of the mountain?
[2023-11-05 08:39 PM] rsulfuratus: that would imply secret
[2023-11-05 08:39 PM] Deciusmus: I think Ulrich Pass should be what people talk about, that's where the huge battle was. The "monastery" was obviously a real place of some sort (the final battle is one of the few things I remember really clearly from the high school game) but I think it should be a bit secret and maybe not really a monastry. If I recall it was some mystical place where the firstborn were more connected to taelgar or something
[2023-11-05 08:40 PM] rsulfuratus: i am happy with [[urlich pass]], and the [[Battle of Urlich Pass]] as the final battle of the Great War
[2023-11-05 08:41 PM] rsulfuratus: the monastery could just be an extraplanar weak point to the divine realm, historically protected by the dwarves or something like that. it is destroyed now anyway so the history isn't super important
[2023-11-05 08:41 PM] Deciusmus: Although remember there was also a big battle at High Horn
[2023-11-05 08:42 PM] rsulfuratus: I don't remember High Horn at all
[2023-11-05 08:42 PM] Deciusmus: I didn't really remember it until I started digging through high school stuff on one drive
[2023-11-05 08:44 PM] rsulfuratus: I think one of your players in an abortive taelgar campaign you started in college was from there or something?
[2023-11-05 08:44 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah
[2023-11-05 08:45 PM] Deciusmus: But also, I think the big battle was not actually at Ulrich, although retconning it to be there is fine. I think we went south from the big battle to have the secondary mystical battle at the monastery
[2023-11-05 08:45 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess i think people would have seen the massive magical battle against the giant shadow dragon
[2023-11-05 08:46 PM] rsulfuratus: it could be the Battle of High Horn and the Battle of Urlich Pass are considered two separate events
[2023-11-05 08:46 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, it is more satisfying to have had it taking place in the sky above the huge battle
[2023-11-05 08:46 PM] rsulfuratus: with the Battle of Urlich Pass being you all gainst Cha'mutte
[2023-11-05 08:46 PM] Deciusmus: High Horn doesn't really exist anywyay
[2023-11-05 08:46 PM] Deciusmus: It would I guess by somewhere in Ardlas or so
[2023-11-05 08:47 PM] Deciusmus: But that's currently envisioned as a place where there are no passes over the mountains, instead humans traded with dwarves who traded with humans on the other side
[2023-11-05 08:48 PM] rsulfuratus: right, I see it on the map
[2023-11-05 08:48 PM] rsulfuratus: let's just retcon it away
[2023-11-05 08:49 PM] Deciusmus: Although it would suit the narrative history of Sembara if the highland kingdoms felt like the fought a thankless and costly unacknowledged war
[2023-11-05 08:50 PM] rsulfuratus: that could also work - it isn't really acknowledged as the key battle of the war
[2023-11-05 08:50 PM] Deciusmus: The Sembaran armies massed at Ulrich Pass to stop the "main advance" of the hobgoblins from the west, and were the heroes who stood in the shadows of the actual heroes, and it becomes this whole myth-making thing
[2023-11-05 08:51 PM] Deciusmus: Well all this time, the highland kingdoms bled with the dwarves in the north, with no real support, and if they hadn't been there the Sembaran armies wouldn't have had a home to come back to
[2023-11-05 08:53 PM] Deciusmus: Which actually works well with both the notes I have from highschool (that Sembaran "north armies" were weaker and less well supported) and the latter history
[2023-11-05 08:54 PM] Deciusmus: When the hobgoblins attack Ardlas in the 1560s and Sembara still doesn't send aid, its the last straw, and causes these diplomatic breaks.

