# Discord DM – 2023-01-14

[2023-01-14 09:11 AM] Deciusmus: If you want to edit metadata.json and/or send me a list of what you think types should be I’ll probably mess around a bit more -9pm
[2023-01-14 09:11 AM] rsulfuratus: okay. I'm doing session prep today (running for Isaac tomorrow and you Mon so a lot on my list) but I might mess around a bit. will push updates to metadata.json if I do anything with it
[2023-01-14 09:16 AM] rsulfuratus: the next thing I might mess around with is a dv.view function (done this way so it can be inline and also so my python code can catch it) that lets you put in a date in DR reckoning and get back a date in Sembaran, Dunmari, or Dwarven reckoning.
[2023-01-14 09:17 AM] rsulfuratus: e.g. was updating my notes on Avaras and would love to be able to say: "Avaras was born in `$=dv.view("_scripts/view/get_Date", dv.current().born, "Dunmari") and get back 91 Nayan or something
[2023-01-14 09:30 AM] Deciusmus: That would be cool
[2023-01-14 09:31 AM] Deciusmus: Fantasy calendar has an “eras” structure in the json but it doesn’t seem to be implemented
[2023-01-14 09:31 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah I looked at that but it didn't seem very robust
[2023-01-14 12:04 PM] rsulfuratus: everyone I've made up who is alive in Eastern Dunmar
    ```dataview
    TABLE location, locationRegion, home, homeRegion from "People" WHERE (locationRegion = "Eastern Dunmar" OR homeRegion = "Eastern Dunmar") AND (!died OR died >` 1748)
    ```
[2023-01-14 03:28 PM] rsulfuratus: did a little work on the metadata.json (People/PC/Ruler, haven't done Items/Places/Buildings) and tested the new frontmatter code. a few thoughts:
    
    1) some more ideas for metadata including:
    a) title (NPC + Ruler). h1 would be title name if title exists, would be nice for things like Speaker Lara / Speaker Candrosa and also all the rulers (Samraat Nayan X), and would lead to consistent file naming (never use title) and h1 (always use title). could even potentially add "title name" as a default alias
    b) something to track mechanics a bit; not sure if "class" would be useful exactly, but a simple way to track who can cast what kind of spells and similar class-like abilities would be extremely useful. Maybe this doesn't need to be stored in metadata, although having it querable could be useful
[2023-01-14 03:29 PM] rsulfuratus: 2) based on a tiny bit of experimental I believe you can use comments in the yaml frontmatter, with #. given this it would be amazing if we could get the updateFrontmatter code to reorganize to put each yaml item in a section; as the amount of yaml grows this is nice to have. maybe something like this (manually done):
    ```
    ---
    type: NPC
    ## bio ##
    name: Lara
    species: human
    ancestry: Dunmari
    gender: female
    ## age ##
    born: 
    died: 
    ## location ##
    home: "Lakan Monastery, Tokra"
    homeRegion: Central Dunmar
    origin:
    originRegion:
    whereabouts:
    ## groups ##
    affiliations: `["Lakan Mystai"]`
    family:
    ## other ##
    yearOverride: 
    aliases: `[]`
    tags: `[NPC/unsorted]`
    ---
    ```
[2023-01-14 03:30 PM] rsulfuratus: right now it looks like the code just inserts new metadata at the end in a somewhat arbitrary order
[2023-01-14 03:33 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway, something to mess around with. I will probably work on a PC header next, as that is pretty close to the NPC header, and then think about items/places/buildings
[2023-01-14 10:00 PM] Deciusmus: I just pushed a change so that you can use:
    {campaign} and {campaignPrefix} in the initial tags in metadata.json and it will be pulled from the like-named values in taelgarConfig.json
[2023-01-14 10:01 PM] Deciusmus: ie. initialTags: `[PCs/{campaign}]`
[2023-01-14 10:01 PM] Deciusmus: not sure if it makes sense to change, haven't actually changed metadata.json, but the script change is there
[2023-01-14 10:02 PM] Deciusmus: I am also going to push _MoC (map of content) folder with
    (a) all the readmes for scripts and stuff
    (b) some basic dataquery pages

