# Discord DM – 2024-07-18

[2024-07-18 10:17 AM] rsulfuratus: Did you push any notes on this yet?
[2024-07-18 10:17 AM] Deciusmus: in the history-rewrite branch
[2024-07-18 10:18 AM] Deciusmus: I didn't want to do it in main because I was doing a lot of deleting and moving wanted to be able to review a diff to make sure I deleteing the right stuff
[2024-07-18 10:18 AM] Deciusmus: but I'm not sure if I got this exactly captured
[2024-07-18 10:19 AM] Deciusmus: I have a session in 1.5 weeks and am mostly switching my taelgar focused stuff to session prep for a bit
[2024-07-18 10:34 AM] rsulfuratus: I need to finally actually develop drankor ha ha so working on a lot of history over the next couple of weeks, fwiw
[2024-07-18 10:35 AM] Deciusmus: you should definitely look at my history-rewreite
[2024-07-18 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: i am tempted to rewrite a little to move away from the Tolkien-esque "elder folk" "elder days" "ages of the world" framework
[2024-07-18 10:48 AM] Deciusmus: I was pretty tempted to get rid of the whole "5th age"
[2024-07-18 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: right, that seems pointless. it was originally an idea for elven timekeeping before we came up with the ka cycle
[2024-07-18 10:49 AM] Deciusmus: right, I guess with the ka cycle why would elves have some different "ages" concept? i mean, I guess you might refer to some set of ka by a name, but that would be very elvish
[2024-07-18 10:50 AM] Deciusmus: so really, you can imagine a mythic structure that is basically
    
    "Time before time"
    "Time before humans"
    "History"
[2024-07-18 10:51 AM] Deciusmus: But it might be good to have a term to refer to the first two categories... whether that uses the word "Age" I'm not sure
[2024-07-18 10:51 AM] rsulfuratus: well, i guess the real idea is that from a metaphysical point of view, there is just the "Mythic Age" (before time) and "History". but that doesn't mean that scholars wouldn't make up names. So from a human point of view, you might have the Hkaran Era and the Drankorian Era
[2024-07-18 10:52 AM] rsulfuratus: and humans might actually consider the Mythic Age to be everything pre-existence of humans
[2024-07-18 10:52 AM] Deciusmus: Right, I was thinking from the perspective of a Drankorian scholar you'd have
    
    the time before time
    the time before humans
    the Hkaran Era
    the current time
    
    from the perspective of a Chardonian scholar, you'd add
    
    the time before time
    the time before humans
    the Hkaran Era
    the Drankorian Era
    the current time
    
    but actually the real dividing point is probably the fall of Drankor, not the fall of Cha'mutte
[2024-07-18 10:54 AM] Deciusmus: from a "making stuff up" point of view, the difference between the time before humans the Hkaran Era is small
[2024-07-18 10:55 AM] Deciusmus: i.e. in many ways the world building history is easier if we don't think of the creation of humans as some "New Age!!!" but just an event
[2024-07-18 10:55 AM] Deciusmus: that avoids eg feeling like the timing of orcs or hobgoblins has to be related to some "age transition"
[2024-07-18 10:56 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah, I think from a worldbuilding perspective there are really three substantial eras:
    - before the planes are separated by the Riving
    - between the Riving and the Downfall
    - between the Downfall and the current day
[2024-07-18 10:56 AM] Deciusmus: right
[2024-07-18 10:58 AM] rsulfuratus: I think that the Age of Myth, the Age of Creation, and the Age of Humanity are reasonable worldbuilding internal names but each could conceivably have different names in different cultures as well, tbd. to the extent to which we want to invest in that kind of worldbuilding.
[2024-07-18 10:59 AM] Deciusmus: right. that probably makes sense too, and is a slightly different dividing line (i.e. presuming the Age of Creation ends with the creation of Humans)
[2024-07-18 11:00 AM] Deciusmus: or you could imagine the Age of Humanity divided into the Hkaran Era, the Drankorian Era, and the post-Drankorian Era
[2024-07-18 11:00 AM] Deciusmus: again, from a worldbuilding-internal naming standpoint mostly
[2024-07-18 11:02 AM] rsulfuratus: one idea I had that i'm not sure about is that the downfall is actually the end of the age of creation, and rather than having a bunch of "void mind" races lingering in the shadows and growing in strength for a thousand years, you basically have wars break out kind of suddenly, and really have for the first time in history (since the riving) the concept of large scale war.
[2024-07-18 11:02 AM] rsulfuratus: the downfall is basically the last gasp of the void mind to destroy the work of the age of creation
[2024-07-18 11:03 AM] rsulfuratus: and something about the downfall is actually significantly more mythically/metaphysically real, it locks into a place a bunch of metaphysics and further restricts magic in some way. maybe moving the outer planes even further from the material plane or something.
[2024-07-18 11:05 AM] Deciusmus: I like the idea of downfall being metaphysically significant... but I also like the elves having this long period of wariness and empire building... and the current semi-canon for the dwarven split is those who want to fortify the underground vs those who want to flee the underground
[2024-07-18 11:06 AM] Deciusmus: So there could be advantages to having a long slow buildup
[2024-07-18 11:06 AM] Deciusmus: If gnomes only left in the 200 years before the downfall or something they should be more well known across taelgar, right?
[2024-07-18 11:07 AM] rsulfuratus: i guess my thought is those kinds of premonitions are more interesting if it is really a magical thing: elmerica is warning the elves of something new, all consuming war, that the that world has never seen; maybe before this time the Warrior of the Bahrazel is something else, not the Warrior, and it is during this time a cult of the Warrior grows up among the dwarves, some thinking this is dangerous and terrible and others believing their crazy stories
[2024-07-18 11:08 AM] rsulfuratus: the dangerous and terrible folks lose and leave, and dwarven society starts inventing armies
[2024-07-18 11:08 AM] Deciusmus: Right, I don't disagree, but it seems odd to have the premonitions 1000 years before anything bad happens
[2024-07-18 11:09 AM] Deciusmus: Even elves aren't going to plan for 1000 years in the future
[2024-07-18 11:09 AM] rsulfuratus: no, but the firstborn don't know when exactly something bad is going to happen
[2024-07-18 11:09 AM] rsulfuratus: its like e.g. early christian predictions about the end of the world or something
[2024-07-18 11:09 AM] Deciusmus: right, I mean, if the premonitions start in 2000 and the wars don't erupt until 3800 that's a long time to be having faith in the premonitions
[2024-07-18 11:10 AM] Deciusmus: It has a very different flavor than the premonitions start in 2000 and are proven true in 2150 or 2200
[2024-07-18 11:10 AM] Deciusmus: in, actually, a not dissimilar way to christian evolution of the end of the world as being seen as less and less "mainstream" as it kept not happening
[2024-07-18 11:11 AM] Deciusmus: doesn't mean that can't be what happened, I just think it changes the flavor in a way I'm not sure I love
[2024-07-18 11:11 AM] rsulfuratus: sure, yes, this is part of why the downfall is so bad. if all of elven society believed that war was going to break out in 100 years they'd have been better prepared and all their empires wouldn't have been lost
[2024-07-18 11:11 AM] Deciusmus: thats a good point
[2024-07-18 11:11 AM] rsulfuratus: the circle I'm trying to square is basically how badly the non-humans lose
[2024-07-18 11:12 AM] rsulfuratus: i mean obviously on some level they win but at massive cost. so why weren't they more prepared?
[2024-07-18 11:16 AM] Deciusmus: What if you have something like...
    (a) Both the dwarven and elven firstborn have these major premonitions of disaster, but like, in 2000 or even 1500. A long time before the downfall wars
    (b) At first, both societies largely accept them, and start preparing for war
    (c) After a hundred years of nothing happening, starts to be schisms. Gnomes split. Disagreement amongst the elves
    (d) Say after another hundred years, small cracks that let in creatures from the Far Realms into the deeps start to appear
    (e) this is nothing "earth shattering" and doesn't really impact elves at all, but it is enough to entrench the dwarven warrior thruh and it becomes this kinda smallish group who defends the deep from the occasional aberration
[2024-07-18 11:17 AM] Deciusmus: Then 1000+ years pass, and the elves who accept the possibility of danger have become something like a small cult of sorts, the watchers or whatever
[2024-07-18 11:19 AM] Deciusmus: Probably needs a bit of work, but I feel like the "isolated watchers not quite believed" works better for elves than dwarves
[2024-07-18 11:19 AM] Deciusmus: Not sure what stoneborn/halflings/lizardfolk are doing all this time
[2024-07-18 11:20 AM] rsulfuratus: yes. in my sentient ocean history, canonically the riving is supposed to open cracks to the far realms, and while it would in theory take some time for e.g. mind flayers to show up those make sense as the "first enemies"
[2024-07-18 11:23 AM] rsulfuratus: I like this. you also have things like undead, and maybe lycanthropy, and a few other evils. greedy dragons and the like, and maybe some remnant giant populations who see small folk as lesser. so it isn't like the world is missing conflict. but you really don't have "war", except deep in the underdark where dwarves fight mind flayers and other strange aberrations
[2024-07-18 11:24 AM] rsulfuratus: there is just enough danger so that the watcher elves or whatever aren't completely unbelievable, but the idea that a few undead or a greedy dragon would spawn vast armies seems difficult to believe
[2024-07-18 11:24 AM] Deciusmus: And in particular, nothing like the "First Age of Elves on Middle Earth in the long fortified war against Morgoth" vibe
[2024-07-18 11:24 AM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2024-07-18 11:24 AM] Deciusmus: I like that
[2024-07-18 11:27 AM] Deciusmus: One thought. Does the Void Mind lose because of the efforts of the firstborn races, or is it something else?
    
    Is the Void Mind winning until somehow a trap is set on Hkar, and massive armies of hobgoblins and orcs and whatever else all sail to Hkar and then the place is sunk to destroy the armies?
    
    Or is the "mainland" battles more even, or at least not quite so hopeless?
[2024-07-18 11:28 AM] Deciusmus: What if there is something specific about Hkar that empowers the divine spark
[2024-07-18 11:28 AM] rsulfuratus: I've always kind of imaged the destruction of Hkar as a trap, yes
[2024-07-18 11:29 AM] rsulfuratus: but nothing canonical in this regard
[2024-07-18 11:31 AM] Deciusmus: Here's an alternative idea though...
    
    When the Divine Presence creates Hkar + the humans, there is literally something metaphysical of themselves that is embedded in Hkar or a part of Hkar. This strengthens and empowers the divine spark in the humans.
    
    During the Downfall Wars, the agents of the Void Mind learn of this, and realize if they can possess and corrupt this whatever, they can destroy and corrupt everything that was imagined with the divine spark, perhaps even humanity itself, and dramatically weaken the Divine Prescene. End the ability to create, at some level.
[2024-07-18 11:33 AM] Deciusmus: And although the battle is still raging, and the Void Mind forces haven't won, it is too much of a risk. And so the Divine Prescence takes back this whatever which sinks Hkar
[2024-07-18 11:33 AM] Deciusmus: And metaphysically, makes them farther away from Taelgar, and makes the creation of new gods harder
[2024-07-18 11:33 AM] Deciusmus: weakens divine magic.
[2024-07-18 11:35 AM] rsulfuratus: i think there is something in that
[2024-07-18 11:36 AM] rsulfuratus: i think actually that cleans up a lot of the complications of the outer planes -- e.g. why is their a fixed set of outer planes and why are some not associated with deities?
[2024-07-18 11:36 AM] Deciusmus: It needs work, I think, but it plays back into the idea that the earlier and closer the humans are to Hkar, the easier it is to create gods. This explains why there are not so many new religions always forming (and maybe even the mariners too something of this power with them, which is why the east has more divine magic and more religions in general)
[2024-07-18 11:37 AM] rsulfuratus: I'm not totally sure I want to say that *no* new gods appear after the downfall, but I think it works very well to have an "easy" era of god formation transition to a "hard" era. and that no new *planes* are formed after the downfall, perhaps excepting divine realms
[2024-07-18 11:37 AM] rsulfuratus: (although metaphyiscally I think divine realms and non-divine outer planes are somewhat distinct)
[2024-07-18 11:38 AM] rsulfuratus: and making that power embedded in the physical location of Hkar itself works well to explain Hkar's destruction
[2024-07-18 11:39 AM] Deciusmus: Right and it could explain some of the earliest outer planes
[2024-07-18 11:39 AM] rsulfuratus: and also perhaps why the elven empire that was in dunmar gets decimated. hobgoblin armies cut down hundreds of thousands of trees to construct a massive armanda
[2024-07-18 11:40 AM] Deciusmus: maybe in the first generation of humans, born themselves with the divine spark, and living on Hkar at the center of this magic literalyl create planes with their dreams. 
    
    So places like Abyss/Hell/Aborea are the planes created by the dreams of the very first generation of humans.
[2024-07-18 11:41 AM] Deciusmus: then *populated* by the divine familiars created by the later generations?
[2024-07-18 11:41 AM] Deciusmus: not sure about that...
[2024-07-18 11:41 AM] Deciusmus: right, I like that
[2024-07-18 11:42 AM] Deciusmus: I gotta go do some work. but the other thing to think about is the vibe of the elves & other firstborn races....
    
    At the end of the Downfall wars is it more like:
    
    that was terrible but we won by our actions OR
    
    that was terrible and we would have all been wiped out if Hkar didn't sink
[2024-07-18 11:42 AM] Deciusmus: (my instinct says the first is better, but not sure)
[2024-07-18 11:47 AM] rsulfuratus: I think my idea of the vibe of the downfall based on this new idea of the void mind wanting to corrupt hkar is that "without our actions, hkar would have been overwhelmed, but ultimately without the sinking of hkar the war could never have ended"
[2024-07-18 11:47 AM] rsulfuratus: so basically, destruction of hkar was a necessary cost, but without the price paid by the firstborn, probably the armies that reached hkar would have achieved their goal and captured the divine spark or whatever before hkar could be destroyed. something like that
[2024-07-18 11:48 AM] rsulfuratus: i have a bunch of meetings this afternoon but am going to try to rewrite the history of taelgar doc on the rewrite branch with these ideas
[2024-07-18 02:27 PM] rsulfuratus: have not got very far due to actual work, but throwing out this thought for comment, will likely pick up some more on this later today.
    
    i think that the extraplanar geography needs a bit of rearranging. 
    
    energy realms make total sense and I like the traditional D&D 5e Elemental Planes. The ethereal plane and the plane of magic connect nicely here. 
    
    echo realms make total sense as well, although the shadowfell might need a little bit of thought. it isn't obvious that fey need two planes, and it is a natural locus for undead, so might make more sense as an undead plane in a sense, but need to think about that in the context of the metaphysics of death. 
    
    however i'm increasingly feeling like the outer planes don't really work. there are canonically as many as perhaps four categories of "outer planes":
    (1) the realms of the embodied gods, of which the dwarven Heart of the Mountain is the most well established
    (2) the realms of incorporeal gods, of which Shakun's realm is the clearest, but which also canonically are not always a separate realm for each deity, e.g. Arkaash is supposed to be the realm of the Dunmari Pantehon
    (3) what I've called the "primal realms": Arborea, the Abyss, Pandemonium, others. These are explicity not associated with deities, or at least not with the Divine Presence (but e.g. Pandemonium might be associated with Jinnik)
    (4) the Dreamworld, the Land of the Dead, the Plane of Souls don't fit obviously into this, although it is canonically established that you can reach the Dreamworld via the Plane of Souls, and the Land of the Dead is a "dividing line" somehow for divine power
    (5) the Astral Plane, which might not even exist? Or might be connected to the Plane of Souls and/or the Dreamworld
[2024-07-18 02:29 PM] rsulfuratus: I think probably separating out the Primal Realms (with perhaps a different name) and associating these with the Riving, perhaps involving some Void Mind shenanigans, is much more straightforward than trying to force these things into the Divine Realms / Spiritual Realms
[2024-07-18 02:31 PM] rsulfuratus: then the embodied gods, incorporeal gods, dreamworld, land of dead, plane of souls are all "Age of Creation" things layered on top of the metaphysical structure created by the RIving
[2024-07-18 02:31 PM] rsulfuratus: and this also potentially creates space for e.g. undead to leak from the shadowfell, or lycanthropes from Pandemonium, or demons from the Abyss, in the age of creation
[2024-07-18 02:32 PM] Deciusmus: I found the early campaign “hell is made by humans because you imagine it” vibe kinda appealing. But it is potentially hard to fit into a unified metaphysics
[2024-07-18 02:33 PM] rsulfuratus: i mean there doesn't have to be a unified metaphysics
[2024-07-18 02:34 PM] Deciusmus: I’ve never been happy with Shadowfell, honestly and it seems kinda odd. Didn’t you run a one shot for Riswynn in the Shadowfell or was that somewhere else?
[2024-07-18 02:35 PM] rsulfuratus: the way the shadowfell has worked so far is not as a permanent echo realm but more like "domains of dread" like Ravenloft. mini-echo-realms created by some powerful trauma/evil/whatever
[2024-07-18 02:36 PM] rsulfuratus: so it is kind of like fey domains in that the boss controls the vibe and the terrain echoes the material world, but very unlike in that you generally can't straightforwardly just walk across the borders
[2024-07-18 02:36 PM] rsulfuratus: and theoretically you could have mulitple overlapping shadowfell domains echoing the same spot
[2024-07-18 02:37 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that is more interesting and consistent with taelgar metaphysics than any kind of permanent equivalent of the feywild just in reverse
[2024-07-18 02:37 PM] rsulfuratus: but still thinking
[2024-07-18 02:37 PM] rsulfuratus: i have a meeting now but more later
[2024-07-18 02:39 PM] Deciusmus: RIght I like that a lot - Shadowfell per se doesn't exist, and perhaps there isn't even a specific word/language/culture/whatever.... But there are a bunch of shadowy/dark echo realms, with a kind-of anti-life vibe...
    
    That fits well with Delwath's backstory as well
[2024-07-18 02:43 PM] Deciusmus: A few thoughts for later..
    
    (1) Agree on energy realms / plane of magic / etheral plane from the Riving
    (2) Agree on Shadowfell not fey & not a thing but more a type of mini-echo realm
    (3) Not sure about undead. Do undead really need a plane? It seems to me that they are very much a material plane phenomena. Doesn't mean a vampire or lich couldn't create a "shadowfell" domain of dread, but I don't think that the undead really need a "home plane" in any sense
    (4) Agree that the core "divine" realms and the core "primal" realms should be thought of separately. 
    (5) Agree that the Dreamworld/Land Of Dead/Plane of Souls needs separate thought
[2024-07-18 02:48 PM] Deciusmus: Some questions:
    
    (a) how does a divine realm come to be? I don't know the answer but my instinct says that the embodied gods & the incorporeal gods probably create them the same way. I think if it is in some sense under the gods control that explains a lot of the differences, i.e. Shakun created her own realm for Reasons rather than joining the realm of the Dunmari family, which was one realm for Reasons. 
    (a - 1) if the gods create the divine realms, that kinda means that until the pantheonic era, there were no divine realms for humans
    (a - 2) how does this relate to souls, which are pretty well established as "returning to their deity" after death in some fashion
    (a - 3) how does this relate to small gods ideas of death, where there is no divine realm?
    (a - 4) what about Thark and other embodied void mind gods. Can they create divine realms as well?
[2024-07-18 02:54 PM] Deciusmus: (b) What is the Plane of Souls / Dreamworld / Land of Dead and when was it created? 
    
    The canon we have so far suggests that the Plane of Souls and Dreamworld are closely connected, and also closely connected to the `*`living*. The plane of souls is like an echo realm almost, but just echoing the souls of those who are alive on taelgar. (Maybe it is an echo realm, creating in the Riving?)
    
    The Dreamworld is has very little canon to it, other than as a place of imagination/dreams/possibilities. I used it in my game once as a place where the party was trapped during a cursed sleep. 
    
    Here's what we wrote in college, which actually still feels kinda right:
    
    The Dreamworld: The Dreamworld is an echo, shadow, and premonition of Taelgar.  The Dreamworld is a realm that contains echoes of the present, past, and future blended together.  Prophecy, and the ability to sense the past associations of an object are strongly tied to connections to the Dreamworld.  The Dreamworld can also, under the influence of a powerful master, be used to send messages, influence dreams, and similar things.  It is at once a part of, and not a part of, Taelgar.
[2024-07-18 02:58 PM] Deciusmus: So thinking about this a bit when I should be working it feels like metaphysically, the Plane of Souls and the Dreamworld are really a sort of echo realm, and probably created in the Riving, and actually might be very different from the land of the dead
[2024-07-18 03:16 PM] Deciusmus: Not sure this long stream of conscious is helpful, but what about something like the following....
    
    (1) In the aftermath of the Riving, the planes are separated, and at least the Energy Realms, Ethereal Realm, Plane of Magic, and the Echo Realms (including the Feywild, the Dreamworld, the Plane of Souls, plus any other random planes like the Mirror Realm and the rumored Nightmare Realm) are created. Plus of course the Material Plane
    
    (2) the embodied gods create their divine realms as they see fit, as they are created. TBD is what about the Void Mind gods, and can they create realms to? Probably yes, but they might not all want to, given the void mind vibe.
    
    (3a) maybe the Land of the Dead is explicitly created as a buffer between the gods and Taelgar during the Downfall, in response to the Void Mind attacks? That could be a mechanism for explaining why it became harder for belief to create gods. (Although this might be too big a change and not quite fit the already established religious history). (3b) Alternatively, maybe the Land of the Dead is in some sense part of the creation of humans. So before the land of the dead, the firstborn souls were taken up by their gods directly from Taelgar.
[2024-07-18 03:17 PM] Deciusmus: I kinda like the implications of (3b) that unleashing the divine spark into the multiverse had other consequences
[2024-07-18 03:30 PM] Deciusmus: Ok..here's a story. What do you think?
    
    In the beginning, magic was all there was. In the Age of Myth before time, there was no life or death, per se, no mortality, and no souls. Magic fueled everything, and time didn't have meaning. Everything that lived at this time was in some sense a being of pure magic.
    
    Then, in the Riving, as the magic of the multiverse was being ordered into the Energy & Ethereal & Magic Planes, the Divine introduced something new: souls. Not made of magic, but something else, that have never existed before.
    
    And the embodied gods & the plane of souls were both shaped out of soul stuff, this new thing. And the embodied gods used the power of their soul stuff to guide and create living beings from the soul stuff in the plane of souls, and shape a new kind of life. As the first souls died, and drifted back to the plane of souls, the embodied gods recognized their work, and swept their souls up, and built realms for them, also out of soul stuff
[2024-07-18 03:35 PM] Deciusmus: This continued for a while (and as an aside, Thark fits in nicely here as perverse creation, not really made of soul stuff at all, not properly, and so he is only able to steal the soul stuff from the other gods and chain and bind it, not create it himself)...
    
    And then the Divine created humans. Humans were a new thing again, made of soul stuff but without a creator or guide, with the power of their soul stuff to shape things intact, rather than skimmed by the embodied gods (this sounds like I'm making Cha'mutte's point, embodied gods as leechs)...
    
    And the Divine made the land of the dead for them, so the human soul stuff could have a place to go when it died. And when the early humans died, before their were any gods, they imagined out of their own soul stuff, the primal realms
[2024-07-18 03:42 PM] Deciusmus: So the history of the planes is basically 3 events:
    
    (a) the Riving establishes the Echo/Energy/Ethereal Realsm
    (b) in the same moment as the Riving, the creation of souls establishes the Plane of Souls (and the Dreamworld, which is basically an echo plane of the Plane of Souls)
    (c) at the time of creation of humans, the Land of the Dead is created
    
    Then, all the "outer" planes (Primal + Spiritual) are built either by human belief, with the power of their soul-stuff, or by embodied or incorporeal gods, with the power of the soul-stuff of their dead followers
    
    In the early days, the human souls were not flowing to any gods, so the primal planes came to be. But then, as the gods developed, human soul-stuff became more and more a purview of the gods, rather than free-floating human belief.
    
    But in theory, metaphysically, if all the humans decided to stop believing/worshipping the gods, you'd go back to a time when human belief could create new primal planes
[2024-07-18 03:51 PM] rsulfuratus: need to think about this all a bit but a few additional points:
    (1) Agree that that Dreamworld is functionally an echo realm of the Plane of Souls - I think this has been established in game already, early on actually in Kenzo's dream journey way back in Karawa. The key distinction between the Dreamworld and what I would call true echo realms is that the geography of the Dreamworld is not tied to the physical geography of the material plane. Shadowfell domains, the Feywild, and the MIrror Realm have, so far, been demonstrated to be geographic echoes (distorted perhaps) of the Material Plane
    (2) Agree that the Land of the Dead is a dividing line of sorts, between the Plane of Souls / Material Plane / echo realms / whatever and the Divine Realms. This is established as well, at least in my secret notes if not in game, and is consistent with a lot of undead lore and lore around resurrection/raise dead etc. (it takes much stronger magic to bring back a soul that has 'passed on')
[2024-07-18 03:54 PM] rsulfuratus: Not positive I agree that the Land of the Dead is a human thing / created originally for humans, and need to think about the primal realms as imagined by dead humans out of their soul stuff
[2024-07-18 03:54 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not sure I agree with any of the above either; its more one potential idea that at least has a unifying mechanic
[2024-07-18 03:58 PM] rsulfuratus: Going back to your questions, re: how does a divine realm come to be, I think this is "it is created by a divinity" and that the distinction between embodied and incorporeal gods here is not particularly meaningful. 
    
    How this relates to souls and dead is, I think, fairly clear in my mind as well. The "Spiritual Realms" writ large are basically places where souls can exist, and if they don't eventually end up in one of the "Spiritual Realms", they fade from existence into nothingness. 
    
    Re: Thark, at least in some sense this has to be yes, otherwise orcs from last session wouldn't believe they could poison him with their souls.
[2024-07-18 03:59 PM] rsulfuratus: I think there is an unresolved question about the souls of humans who are not taken up by one of the major divinities with an extraplanar realm, and I think there is still an unresolved question about where the non-god-associated spiritual realms come from
[2024-07-18 04:01 PM] Deciusmus: Re: Thark, I'm not sure Thark has to be able to create a divine realm for orcs to believe they can poison him, right? He just has to have some type of existence that is in  place they can reach him. Although a divine realm is probably simplest
[2024-07-18 04:03 PM] Deciusmus: re: echo realms.
    
    My thinking is that an echo realm is just a echo of the Riving, and, in some sense, could be an echo of something other than Taelgar. So the Dreamworld is an echo of the creation of the plane of souls or whatever.
    
    Is it necessary to assume all echo realms are an echo of the plane of taelgar? Maybe dragons all live in some echo of the plane of magic.
[2024-07-18 04:05 PM] Deciusmus: What's different about the echo realms is they are sorta created by accident. 
    
    Whereas the energy realms are the separation of the stuff of the multiverse from before the Riving.
    
    And the spiritual realms are created by divine beings, on purpose.
    
    (primal realms TBD)
[2024-07-18 04:05 PM] rsulfuratus: Agree on Echo realms vs Energy realms as you describe - no not all echo realms need to echo the material plane
[2024-07-18 04:06 PM] rsulfuratus: I think "primal realms" is the wrong word FWIW, at least in some old notes I have 
    Arcane magic = Energy realms, plane of magic
    Divine magic = Spiritual Realms, Divine Presence
    Primal magic = Echo realms, resonances of the Riving
[2024-07-18 04:07 PM] Deciusmus: Interesting
[2024-07-18 04:07 PM] Deciusmus: but I agree
[2024-07-18 04:07 PM] rsulfuratus: not committed to that as canonical but it is interesting and fits in at least with some centaur lore
[2024-07-18 04:07 PM] Deciusmus: "outer planes" is the best shorthard term for now, but clearly not the right taelgaresque term
[2024-07-18 04:08 PM] Deciusmus: Right. At some point we need to clarify a bit what fey magic is. Because eventually Kiya is going to want to know exactly how Celyn feels different when he casts a fey spell vs a divine spell
[2024-07-18 04:09 PM] Deciusmus: But putting that aside, I agree that primal is the wrong word.
[2024-07-18 04:11 PM] rsulfuratus: Re: magic, I actually think in some ways my older notes are wrong, and there is no reason for such broad generalizations. All magic on Taelgar is the manipulation of extraplanar energy, yes. But mechanically, any player who cares can choose some reasonable source of extraplanar energy to be what they manipulate
[2024-07-18 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: I didn't mean to suggest that "primal" = "rangers and druids"
[2024-07-18 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: Or at least, I didn't read it that way
[2024-07-18 04:12 PM] Deciusmus: More, I was thinking you meant "there is a 3rd kind of magical ressonance, from the echo realms, which is a different type of magic than arcane or divine"
[2024-07-18 04:12 PM] Deciusmus: in our high school notes we called this "the magic of Taelgar"
[2024-07-18 04:12 PM] rsulfuratus: Right, but what I'm suggesting is the idea that there are three categories is maybe wrong
[2024-07-18 04:14 PM] rsulfuratus: "Plane of Magic" magic and "Pray to Deity" magic are the most common and easiest, perhaps. But "feywild magic", "elemental plane magic", and "other outer plane" magic could all exist
[2024-07-18 04:16 PM] rsulfuratus: so if you wanted to play a storm sorcerer or something maybe you don't use traditional "arcane" magic from the plane of magic, but use "elemental magic" from the elemental planes
[2024-07-18 04:16 PM] rsulfuratus: or a circle of dreams druid maybe uses "dreamworld magic"
[2024-07-18 04:16 PM] Deciusmus: right, I see.
[2024-07-18 04:16 PM] Deciusmus: sure
[2024-07-18 04:17 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway, a bit far afield from the original discussion. still going to try to type up the history notes, and maybe will try to incorporate some comments on the extraplanar stuff as ``%%` `%%`` notes
[2024-07-18 04:18 PM] Deciusmus: I was thinking about making a stab at updating the cosmology section briefly with this
[2024-07-18 04:18 PM] Deciusmus: but I'm not sure if we've agreed to anything
[2024-07-18 04:20 PM] Deciusmus: perhaps just that Dreamworld/land of dead don't belong in Spiritual relams and that the Riving created at least
    
    (a) energy + magic + ethereal
    (b) dreamworld + plane of souls
    
    And that the divine spiritual realms were crated by gods, separately
    and that the primal realms should be renamed but we don't have a good alternate name
[2024-07-18 04:25 PM] Deciusmus: Also perhaps that the Shadowfell has nothing to do with the fey
[2024-07-18 04:37 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe add some notes to the overall multiverse page. i'm not sure anything is settled enough to be worth revising the organization of the cosmology section yet
[2024-07-18 05:10 PM] Deciusmus: I think there is something to be said for "de-canonifying" the current division, i.e. by 
    - moving stuff that isn't definitely a spirtual realm out of spiritual realms
    - getting rid of "primal realms" as a catagory
[2024-07-18 05:11 PM] Deciusmus: might play around in a PR-branch
[2024-07-18 06:33 PM] rsulfuratus: working a bit more on this and wondering about this:
    
    The Riving is actually several ordered events, although the time between them is undefined as the linear progression of time doesn't really make sense until the Riving ends:
    
    1) The Divine Presence separates the material plane from the energy and echo realms, making a place that, while not devoid of magic, is much more stable and safe.
    
    2) The Divine Presence spins out from itself the raw material for souls, which are basically like little fragments of the divine, creating the Plane of Souls as a kind of undifferentiated swirl. 
    
    3) The Divine Presence creates out of itself the Embodied Gods, and gives them the power to shape soul stuff, but creates the land of the dead as a barrier, limiting the ability of souls to influence the Divine Presence or act beyond the material plane. 
    
    4) The Embodied gods use the soul stuff to create the elves, dwarves, etc, and create their personal domains beyond the land of the dead. This ends the Riving and starts the Age of Creation.
[2024-07-18 06:34 PM] rsulfuratus: Then, the creation of humanity is the moment when the Divine Presence allows a break in the Land of the Dead. Humanity is given the divine spark to shape divinity. The incorporeal gods are created because of this barrier.
[2024-07-18 06:34 PM] rsulfuratus: The Downfall seals this barrier again, but quite completely
[2024-07-18 06:35 PM] rsulfuratus: Actually implies separating the world out into four mythic eras again, with creation of humans as a dividing line, but I think neatly wraps some things up
[2024-07-18 06:36 PM] rsulfuratus: The period of time betwen the Creation of Humans and the Downfall is a period when it is relatively easy to create "outer planes". 
    
    Some are created by human beliefs. Some are created by the Void Mind's agents, descendants, etc. Some maybe are created by strange and unlikely events.
[2024-07-18 06:37 PM] rsulfuratus: Afterward, after the Downfall, the metaphysical world is largely fixed. But the barrier is not **completely** sealed, to leave open the possibility of weird stuff, new gods, as needed
[2024-07-18 06:37 PM] Deciusmus: I like the first part, but I don't think it needs to be a set of linearly ordered events exactly. Is causality even unidirectional in the Age of Myth? Aerin going back to before the Riving somehow creates kenku, right? Who says that order has meaning?
[2024-07-18 06:38 PM] Deciusmus: But sure, from a "untangling for ease of understanding" I like it
[2024-07-18 06:38 PM] rsulfuratus: sure, I guess for ease of human minds to understand it makes sense to say in some way creation of the plane of souls and creation of embodied gods has to precede the creation of the elder folk but in metaphysical reality causality doesn't have to be unidirection
[2024-07-18 06:41 PM] Deciusmus: So the mythic history becomes:
    
    all magic, no souls
    soul stuff created, but its influence is locked to Taelgar itself
    door opened, soul stuff can influence the metaverse
    oops, that's too dangerous, patch it up by the door can never be fully closed
[2024-07-18 06:41 PM] rsulfuratus: basically, yes
[2024-07-18 06:42 PM] rsulfuratus: what I like about it is that it allows for any random "outer plane" someone wants to make, and no reason for it fit into a unified metaphysics
[2024-07-18 06:44 PM] Deciusmus: Right so basically an “outer plane” is just something created with soul stuff at some level
[2024-07-18 06:44 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, exactly
[2024-07-18 06:44 PM] Deciusmus: But each outer plane can / should have a specific origin story
[2024-07-18 06:44 PM] Deciusmus: I like that a lot actually
[2024-07-18 06:45 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that I would the astral plane basically the undifferentiated soulstuff beyond the land of the dead (while the plane of souls is the differentiated soulstuff on the material plane side of the land of the dead)
[2024-07-18 06:46 PM] rsulfuratus: and then any plane made of soulstuff floats in the astral plane and has some kind of origin story
[2024-07-18 06:47 PM] Deciusmus: I’m not convinces the astral plane needs to exist
[2024-07-18 06:48 PM] Deciusmus: Is it too religious-vibe to have soul stuff be the Divine Presence?
[2024-07-18 06:50 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that is it too religious-vibe to have the soul stuff be the Divine Presence. And also is probably inconsistent with it being shaped into outer planes by Void Mind things
[2024-07-18 06:51 PM] rsulfuratus: I think it is the Divine Presence imbuing some if its creative magic into something new
[2024-07-18 06:52 PM] rsulfuratus: also re: astral plane, I think it is useful to have a way to travel to the outer planes that isn't plane shift
[2024-07-18 06:52 PM] Deciusmus: Are elven , dwarven , and human souls different in some metaphysical way?
[2024-07-18 06:53 PM] rsulfuratus: I don't know but I'm not sure there is any reason for them to be
[2024-07-18 06:54 PM] Deciusmus: What about the idea that the divine presence basically creates the astral plane - the source of soul stuff - in imitation or learning from the plane of magic - and elves and dwarves and everyone else is created when the embodied gods pass the soul stuff from the astral plane to the plane of souls
[2024-07-18 06:55 PM] Deciusmus: Humans are the first souls that go freely in some sense which is why they have the divine spark
[2024-07-18 06:57 PM] rsulfuratus: i like that

