# Discord DM – 2024-03-28

[2024-03-28 10:53 AM] Deciusmus: Hrm. I have an NPC (Eremon) who is a (non-magical) acolyte of the Night Queen, from Fellburn, who left Fellburn ~6/7 years ago and was wandering around, and has been recently having premonitions about the undead rising.
    
    I wonder if something happened around when Cece died that foreshadowed the lich in some way.
    
    I kinda like the idea that the lich is ultimately in conflict with the Night Queen, and goes after her elders because they are closing in on him.
[2024-03-28 10:54 AM] Deciusmus: (I mean, he isn't *intentionally* in conflict with her, but he is very anti-theNightQueen, he is basically trying to subvert the natural order of death and so on)
[2024-03-28 01:30 PM] rsulfuratus: trying to get the villages correct, there isn't really a great map that I can find in Obsidian. Basically you have, west to east along the Great South Road:
    Cleanseau -- 6 miles -- Beury -- 15 miles -- Dallet -- 10? miles -- Champimont -- 10? miles -- Eftly -- 20 miles -- Rinburg -- 95 miles -- Fellburn
[2024-03-28 01:30 PM] rsulfuratus: is that right?
[2024-03-28 01:30 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah basically.
[2024-03-28 01:31 PM] Deciusmus: I have some better notes in my dm folder.
[2024-03-28 01:31 PM] Deciusmus: Let me look in a min
[2024-03-28 01:34 PM] Deciusmus: I should move this to proper notes...
    
    Starting in Rinburg the usual walking route is:
    
    Rinburg to Essenmer (long day on foot, 12 miles)
    Essenmer to Eftly (short day, 9 miles)
    Eftly to Champimont (very short day, 6 miles, but Champimont is the largest town between Rinburg and Cleenseau)
    Champimont to Dallet (long day, 13 miles)
    Dallet to Beury (long day, 15 miles)
    Beury to Cleenseau ~5 miles
[2024-03-28 01:35 PM] Deciusmus: I haven't made up anything past Rinburg toward Fellburn
[2024-03-28 01:36 PM] rsulfuratus: also, if I'm reading the timeline correctly, the attacks basically start all over around Jan 7/8. where is Vahiaya then? by Jan 15th they end up in Champimont, heading west from Eftly where a monster was defeated - but at this point Fellburn has been under siege for a week or so
[2024-03-28 01:36 PM] rsulfuratus: Armand was with Vahiaya in Eftly, or met in Champimont?
[2024-03-28 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: Unclear.
[2024-03-28 01:37 PM] rsulfuratus: or undetermined?
[2024-03-28 01:38 PM] rsulfuratus: have a meeting more in a bit
[2024-03-28 01:38 PM] Deciusmus: The undead awaken in 3 waves
    
    * Jan 4th overnight - dead awaken across Sembara, mostly in places where there are large numbers of unburied dead
    * Jan 5th overnight - second wave of dead awaken
    * Jan 6th overnight - third wave of dead awaken
    
    But in many cases not near civilization or in scattered places, and sometimes take a night or two to move from "awake" to "above ground"
    
    So the basic timeline is in a variety of places across Sembara, problems with undead start as early as the morning of Jan 5th or as late as the evening of Jan 8th
[2024-03-28 01:39 PM] Deciusmus: The Fellburn siege begins in the predawn hours of Jan 8th
[2024-03-28 01:43 PM] Deciusmus: Eftly is attacked on Jan 7th, although the monster grows and becomes big only the 10th-11th (although this isn't canonical)
[2024-03-28 01:53 PM] Deciusmus: I don't have a canonical route for Vahaiya and the Rangers, but the basic idea is:
    
    The 5th or 6th  they get magical communication (sending/speaking stones/etc) of the start of problems, as various groups within Sembara basically start asking the Rangers for help.
    
    Vahaiya is in Addermarch or the border baronies north of the Mostreve Hills and this point, and is one of several groups the Rangers send north. 
    
    Takes 3-5 days to get from wherever to the Enst (near Rinburg, I guess). But some encounters or problems could have delayed this a bit. 
    
    I haven't entirely figured out why the Rangers didn't stay in Rinburg to try to help with the lake monster. Either they never passed through Rinburg (so didn't know about it, i.e. if they came over the Enst on the west side of Eftly and/or in between Eftly and Rinburg) or they felt someone else was doing it and agreed to split up.
[2024-03-28 02:50 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess where I'm going with this is my feeling is Armand would probably not head west away from Fellburn, upon hearing news of big undead siege there, unless he is explicitly going to get help for Fellburn, or he can't get to Fellburn because of dangers on the road or something like that
[2024-03-28 02:52 PM] rsulfuratus: but not sure enough about the timeline of what is happening where to propose a coherent "last two weeks" itinerary for him
[2024-03-28 02:52 PM] Deciusmus: I suspect the best story for him is that he is actually trying to get to Fellburn
[2024-03-28 02:53 PM] Deciusmus: He was - for whatever reason - west of Eftly when the undead starting rising. He might not have even heard about the siege of Fellburn at first, as the ghast-creature in Eftly was cutting off most news from the east
[2024-03-28 02:54 PM] rsulfuratus: why did Vaihaya turn west from Eftly instead of east towards Rinburg?
[2024-03-28 02:54 PM] Deciusmus: So they'd run into my PCs? Duh 😄
[2024-03-28 02:54 PM] rsulfuratus: well obviously
[2024-03-28 02:55 PM] Deciusmus: Realistically, I suspect Vahaiya was basing themselves in Champimont. So it is a return-to-base and regroup
[2024-03-28 02:55 PM] Deciusmus: It's only 6 miles to Eftly, so reasonable to defeat the monster, return to Champimont for a long rest/restock, then head out
[2024-03-28 02:57 PM] rsulfuratus: what is happening on the Wistel? are there undead there too or confined to the south?
[2024-03-28 02:57 PM] Deciusmus: Here's the full set of outbreaks:
    
    The major clusters are:
    * Fellburn skeletal army, emerges Jan 6th - 7th overnight, crawls and forms and reforms, some people flee and die Battle of Stavenford / Battle of Fellburn, (largest mass of undead)
    * Eskbridge Far east near Tyrwingha 4th - 5th is (big)
    * Borderlands all 3, 5 clusters total, mostly small, local devastation and local heroics (maybe doesn't happen)
    * Rinburg 6th - 7th emerges in lake (giant eel thing only, minimal actual undead)
    * Aveil hills, emerges 4th - 5th (small)
    * Ainwick emerges 5th - 6th bandit zombies (big))
    * Cleenseau 4th - 5th second one 7th (small)
    * Dunmore 4th - 5th (small)
    * Enford 6th - 7th (small)
    * Gowerborne Wis 2 - 5th - 6th, (big)
    
    Although not 100% of those are canonical
[2024-03-28 02:58 PM] Deciusmus: It is isolated to south of the Wistel for the most part; the only case I have of an outbreak beyond the Wistel is in the Aine Hills
[2024-03-28 02:59 PM] Deciusmus: Nothing near Embry, or really outside the Dunfry - Aveil - Wisford section other than the one outbreak in the Aine Hills
[2024-03-28 03:00 PM] Deciusmus: The ones that I'm sure about are
    
    Gowerbourne, on the Wistel, but the outbreak is actually inland. This is where the Duke of WIsford is now (although he is heading to Fellburn)
    
    Fellburn.
    
    Aveil Hills (but this is small)
    
    Aine Hills (this is distracting the Army of the West)
    
    Enford (small)
[2024-03-28 03:00 PM] Deciusmus: (plus the stuff in Rinburg and Cleenseau, although none of that is very big)
[2024-03-28 03:01 PM] Deciusmus: I'm leaning toward the Borderlands one being not real (I didn't even hint at it in game) and the Eskbridge one being just false rumors
[2024-03-28 03:11 PM] Deciusmus: (I'm in a meeting, responses might be slow)
[2024-03-28 03:16 PM] rsulfuratus: So here is roughly what I would propose for Armand. Timing not precise and needs checking with travel times. 
    
    Early Dec sometime (5-6 weeks ago, per your comment in Armand's obisidan note), he left Embry based on bad premonitions about undead and such. Reaches Wisford and then heads upriver, towards Gowerbourne and eventually aiming for Ainwick. This could be (a) on orders of the temple in Embry, if there is an organized effort to send people investigating premonitions; (b) because he knows someone he wants to connect with, someone with Night Queen connections he feels might have insight; (c) perhaps because of dreams / visions. Probably (b) is cleanest but I don't know the relevant context.
    
    It is ~250 miles from Wisford to Ainwick, so say is not pushing hard and gets there in ~2 weeks, mid/late December. Spends Pyravela in Ainwick. 
    
    It is only 50-60 miles from Ainwick to the Aveil Hills, so when rumors reach him in Ainwick (maybe Jan 6-7) of undead, he heads south, hurrying, reaching Aveil Hills perhaps in 2 days, by Jan 8-9.  (*note this requires delaying the emergence of Ainwick undead so he has left by the time they emerge, or deciding this didn't happen)
    
    In Aslain, rumors are flying about all kinds of badness, mostly to the south, so he heads south. At this point, probably trying to get to Fellburn and help there, but hears of the lake monster in Rinburg and does not think he can face it alone, so swings west to gather news and hopefully allies. 
    
    At that point, either meets Vahaiya and their crew in Eftly and helps with the monster there, or ends up in Champimont looking for news and allies heading east.
[2024-03-28 03:40 PM] rsulfuratus: Fleshing out a bit more, I would say it probably makes the most sense if:
    (a) Armand left mostly on his own, not sent on a mission, largely just feeling restless and sure something bad was coming, and was aiming for Ainwick or some place near there, where he knew someone, an old friend, perhaps not a human - I am imagining basically a kind of recluse / hermit but who Armand would trust to have a sense of the land, corruption. probably not someone dedicated to the Night Queen, more like a druid-type, or a centaur, or maybe a halfling
    (b) There was not an undead attack on Ainwick, so that Armand isn't tempted to turn back; there could have been outbreaks downriver between Ainwick and Gowerborne, or rumors could be confused
[2024-03-28 04:06 PM] Deciusmus: I actually think it works better if he is local to Aveil in the Jan 5-8th timeframe. What if instead of going up the Wistel, he ends up in Aveil. Same idea (seeking a recluse/hermit type) but this person lives in the eastern eaves of the Cleenseau Wood, a bit upriver from Aslain say
[2024-03-28 04:08 PM] Deciusmus: For him, the undead outbreak starts with a few zombies arising in the village next door, or whatever, and for ~3-4 days he is busy in the local area around  just helping folks.
    
    Around Jan 10th he hears of 
    (a) some trouble in the Aveil Hills
    (b) the siege of Fellburn
    
    And he dithers for a bit but ultimately is compelled to head towards Fellburn. He heads south along the Auberonne
[2024-03-28 04:10 PM] Deciusmus: But before he reaches Rinburng, he gets pulled along a series of villages with problems and ends up finding it faster to get back on track by heading due south from some village west of the Auberonne, which puts him smack into Eftly.
    
    He basically runs into Vahayia and their group hunting the ghast just outside Eftly
[2024-03-28 04:10 PM] rsulfuratus: sure, that works. the exact route doesn't matter too much
[2024-03-28 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: Right. It is helpful from a "not needing to decide everything" if his knowledge base is mostly local, not far away
[2024-03-28 04:56 PM] Deciusmus: Did we decide when the next holiday is, btw? We were talking about a "end of the not travelling season" type holiday in mid-late Jan
[2024-03-28 06:04 PM] rsulfuratus: I don't think anything was ever made canon on that front

