# Discord DM – 2024-11-19

[2024-11-19 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: do you have any ideas about what the divine realm of Aldanor might be like? i thought we had some brief discussions about this at some point but can't find them now
[2024-11-19 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: oh, wait, found this email
[2024-11-19 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: The domain of Aldanor and Elmerca is at first glance, an ancient forest at twilight, with bright stars twinkling above and secluded pools of still water reflecting the sky. But all is not as it seems. The forest is not a traditional forest, where the trees grow straight up from the ground, and where water flows downhill, and where the sky is always above. Instead, it is more a set of forest vignettes, connected by pathways of thought, dream, and magic. A visitor might arrive in a small glade, with ancient trees towering overhead and silver flowers blooming in the moonlight on the forest floor. But walking out of the glade, they might find themselves standing on criss-crossed branches hundreds of feet across, part of the canopy of an unimaginably large tree, looking down at a river of bright stars sparkling like a field of diamonds. Walking around a branch, the visitor might find it narrowing, and narrowing, until they find themselves in the leaves of an ancient oak grove, surrounded by cliffs that go up forever, but growing out of nothing but a field of stars below. Climbing to the base of one of the oaks, the visitor might notice the field of stars becomes, as they pass the edge of the grove,  swaying bridge of twisted vines and moss and delicate orchids with hundreds of complex petals, leading over a gorge between two huge cliffs, with a misty bottom a thousand feet below, and trees growing up out of the bottom of the gorge and stretching into the sky full of stars.
[2024-11-19 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: Navigation is a challenge, as the place is partly memory and dream, and so navigation is not really by sight or touch, but by memory and recollection. Some pathways are lit up with magical beacons, and those with eyes to see the magic and the right memories can navigate more easily, although only between some of the major landmarks: the Cascade of Living Stars, the Wind Scar, the First Wilds, the Canopy of the Eldest, others unnamable and unreported. `[No specific ideas on what these places are, just tossing out names]`
[2024-11-19 10:49 AM] rsulfuratus: The plane is permeated deeply by a sense of age and ancientness -- there are no new growths, no saplings, no green shoots or new plants. Even the blooming flowers, mosses, vines and other small plants are permeated with a sense of age. There are exceptions though: the first is the stars - they often appear bright-new as if they were created moments ago. These stars often appear as if they are just within arms reach, although rarely does one who reaches for them find they really are within arms reach. It is said that the stars are the thoughts of Elmerca, and each continues a true foretelling of some future event. But it is also said that they are dangerous, and burn with a fierce cold and razor-sharp edges. The other exception is magic: out of the ancient trees magical creations regularly 'bloom'. This magic usually upsets the normal order of time: ephemeral things in the material plane are long-lived, and permanent things ephemeral: sparkling fireworks that last for days, or years; small wisps of energy shaped like squirrels, or birds, that dash across the woods and vanish into a tree the next moment; embodied notes of songs, that drift through the realm with a soft hint of music, and gather in flocks where the soft hints crescendo into orchestral triumphs; silver-flecked granite boulders, that last just long enough to serve as a stepping stone over a stream, and then scattering into a flurry of glittering silver; salty raindrops, like tears, the slowly drift down (or up) from the sky carrying pervasive sense of melancholy.
[2024-11-19 06:14 PM] Deciusmus: In general I like that. One thought is is there 1 domain or 2? do the various elder races typically have a single divine realm?
[2024-11-19 06:16 PM] Deciusmus: Also I wonder if there should be some type of sense of connection to the mela / leya connection. Is there a tide or sense in Aldanor's realm of the mela/leya? Does it originate there somehow?
[2024-11-19 07:06 PM] Deciusmus: Would it make sense for Ethlenns ability to pull taelgar and the Feywild closer together and strengthen/make portals to be in some way metaphysically similar to the moon’s planar tides
[2024-11-19 07:06 PM] Deciusmus: ?
[2024-11-19 07:06 PM] Deciusmus: Not suggesting that Ethlenn is anyway related to the moon, but rather than there is some commonality in the metaphysics
[2024-11-19 10:48 PM] rsulfuratus: I think so far I've tended to think of a single divine realm for the each set of Firstborn / Embodied Gods. E.g, dwarves have just the Heart of the Mountain for all the Baharzel.
[2024-11-19 10:48 PM] Deciusmus: Right, that makes sense
[2024-11-19 10:49 PM] rsulfuratus: re: tides - I think conceptually yes to both some kind of "tide" from Aldanor's realm and some vague metaphysical relationship between the moon's planar tides and Ethlenn's
[2024-11-19 10:50 PM] rsulfuratus: but also I think this is very vague - just a sense of there being a kind of tide-like phenonmenon, which is mysterious, but can potentially be controlling various ways and influenced by various powers
[2024-11-19 10:51 PM] rsulfuratus: but e.g. there could be an interesting lore connection with your lunar sorcerer, for example
[2024-11-19 10:55 PM] Deciusmus: yeah that is why I was thinking about it
[2024-11-19 11:08 PM] Deciusmus: Specifically I was thinking that his lunar magic would help/be key in figuring out the basic plot of “needs some part of Ethlenn’s magic to keep portal open”

