# Discord DM – 2024-03-17

[2024-03-17 10:11 AM] rsulfuratus: was away from my computer all afternoon yesterday, looking at this now
[2024-03-17 10:20 AM] rsulfuratus: I would make a few subtle tweaks. 
    
    I think that the fundamental relationship with Ethlenn is less about land (e.g., I'm not sure it makes sense to say that all land in Tyrwingha is held in trust for Ethlenn), and more about obligations of service and protection. 
    
    I like the way you've set up earls, but I'd frame it more explicitly like almost a fey bargain. Ethlenn has offerred her protection over the land, and in turn asks for service from the people.
    
    I kind of imagine that long ago, before Drankor, this was more explicitly about a bargain between the people and Ethlenn, and the service might often involve someone spending a year in the feywild. 
    
    Subsequently, this has evolved, and the earls kind of function like a stand-in. 
    
    I think this is the vibe you were going for, yes?
    
    But the land holding stuff doesn't really fit to me, since it would be weird for a fey lord to have an interest in *land* on the material plane, imo.
[2024-03-17 10:20 AM] Deciusmus: Yeah that makes sense. It is the vibe I was going for.
[2024-03-17 10:22 AM] Deciusmus: But I also wasn’t sure I wanted to pull in the full complexity of sembaran land holdings. In particular I like the distinction of not being so based around manors, and being more based on service obligations than taxes on land
[2024-03-17 10:22 AM] rsulfuratus: right, sure
[2024-03-17 10:22 AM] Deciusmus: But I agree the “Ethlenn owns the land” is probably the wrong vibe
[2024-03-17 10:23 AM] rsulfuratus: I think I would just basically make all land in Tyrwinghan effectively what Sembarans would call folkland
[2024-03-17 10:23 AM] rsulfuratus: except that since there is no taxation on land, there is no reason you can't sell it
[2024-03-17 10:25 AM] rsulfuratus: the Court of All in a village is responsible for, among other things, land records and deeds, and so you get a bit of a New England town hall vibe where the village can block a sale they don't want, which tends to make villages a bit insular I guess
[2024-03-17 10:27 AM] Deciusmus: I like that actually though
[2024-03-17 10:32 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah I think it works. so basically you have the following:
    - a somewhat feudal relationship with Ethlenn, which is based on obligations of service and protection, although practically speaking the earls serve as a stand in for Ethlenn, and claim the service obligations and provide protection (although, there are probably cases in Tywinghan common law where an earl was unable to get the service from a particular village some year because they had instead done something directly for Ethlenn; there might be some tie in with the army and warlocks here)
    - a fairly "modern" concept of private property rights
    - a heavily rural, village based society where the Court of All controls a lot of aspects of life in a village, with kind of a New England town hall vibe, which probably means there can be a lot of village-to-village variability
[2024-03-17 10:33 AM] rsulfuratus: Left unsaid are how earls are chosen. Are these hereditary nobility now? I guess yes, although perhaps would be worth considering some variants
[2024-03-17 10:34 AM] Deciusmus: My thinking is that technically, like the electors, the earls are supposed to be put forward by the existing body of earls and accepted by Ethlenn
[2024-03-17 10:35 AM] Deciusmus: But in practice, silence is interpreted as acceptance and so mostly children follow parents.  But it’s formally an elected position where the existing earls are the electors
[2024-03-17 10:36 AM] Deciusmus: So there is some variability especially when an earl dies unexpectedly, ie before having had a chance to have their heir officially selected
[2024-03-17 10:37 AM] Deciusmus: (The idea being that “earls heir” is a position in its own right, and most earls will arrange for their chosen heir to be elected as the earl-in-waiting before they die)
[2024-03-17 10:37 AM] rsulfuratus: Right, I think that works
[2024-03-17 10:37 AM] Deciusmus: But occasionally Ethlenn actually does intervene, and other times politics intervenes, so it isn’t “by right” that the position inherits like it is in sembara
[2024-03-17 10:42 AM] rsulfuratus: What is relationship between earls and the crown?
[2024-03-17 10:43 AM] Deciusmus: Hrm… I think the earls should be subservient to the crown but kinda forgot about the crown in the above
[2024-03-17 10:43 AM] rsulfuratus: One possible history could be that originally (pre-Drankor), you just had earls, no crown. The earls were basically Ethenn’s court on the material plane
[2024-03-17 10:44 AM] rsulfuratus: Then in the deal with Drankor, ethenn creates the royal electors, at this point the advisors to drankor or whatever who have to formally approve whoever is proposed for governor of the province
[2024-03-17 10:45 AM] rsulfuratus: The earls still exist and are fairly independent of the Drankorian hierarchy
[2024-03-17 10:46 AM] rsulfuratus: Part of the deal, perhaps, is that certain matter of local organization are devolved to the earls still
[2024-03-17 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: Maybe in the early days post Drankor the monarch is actually quite weak, and the power of the monarch kind of depends on the extent to which the monarch is seen as the actual representative of Ethlenn on the material plane
[2024-03-17 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: Formally speaking the monarch is always supposed to be that
[2024-03-17 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: So earls would owe allegiance kind of analogously to a reagent
[2024-03-17 10:51 AM] Deciusmus: I like that so far…
[2024-03-17 10:51 AM] rsulfuratus: could even imagine that the early tales of the earls of Tyrwingha have a bit of a "knights of the round table" vibe, with Ethlenn as the king arthur standin. Maybe "earl" is actually an old Tyrwinghan word for knight
[2024-03-17 10:54 AM] rsulfuratus: I think this would imply that the earls are kind of an independent power base; it is only the assumption/belief that Ethlenn will directly intervene to keep things from going too far off the rails that keeps things working, since in some sense the earls don't actually owe any formal allegience to the monarch themsevles. they owe allegience to Ethlenn, and thus to the monarch as Ethlenn's mortal representative
[2024-03-17 10:55 AM] Deciusmus: I do think the electors should have more power/something here. The oracle of the riven is envisioned as 7 high level warlocks.
[2024-03-17 10:55 AM] rsulfuratus: the third pillar I'd add is that probably the Oracles of the Riven and the elite warlock cadre in the army should have some connection and perhaps more active power than is described
[2024-03-17 10:55 AM] rsulfuratus: ha yes
[2024-03-17 10:55 AM] rsulfuratus: jinx
[2024-03-17 10:56 AM] Deciusmus: It is also interesting the relationship with sembara
[2024-03-17 10:57 AM] Deciusmus: Perhaps the Tyrwinghan monarchy is quite weak, and all the times it doubles up with sembara works relatively well because basically the monarch focuses on sembara
[2024-03-17 10:59 AM] rsulfuratus: right, I can sort of envision that in times of peace, or in times of dire war, Tyrwingha gets a lot out of a close personal alliance with Sembara, and doesn't give up much, since functionally speaking it doesn't really make any different to the people of Clawyn or wherever who the warlocks say the mortal representative of Ethlenn is
[2024-03-17 10:59 AM] rsulfuratus: the real question is what does Ethlenn get out of it?
[2024-03-17 11:00 AM] rsulfuratus: and also what does Sembara get out of it?
[2024-03-17 11:01 AM] Deciusmus: I’m getting in the car to go grocery shopping but I will ponder
[2024-03-17 12:06 PM] Deciusmus: So riffing on what you said above, what about something like this:
    
    In the ancient times, Ethlenn's earls were effectively her court in the mortal realm, and it would have been common for them to spend some time in the Feywild.  The idea of earls having circuits of villages, and villages owning service to Ethlenn via the earls would date to this time.
    
    When Ethlenn made her deal with Drankor, part of the deal was specifically to create the Oracle of the Riven, which in turn had veto power over the Drankorian governer of the province. The Oracle was also the vehicle by which Ethlenn learned magical secrets from Drankor.
    
    Over the many years of Drankorian rule, Ethlenn fades a little bit into the background, and the earls intermix with the Drankorian elite and start to acquire land and more mudane interests. The ideal of the earls as Ethlenn's knights-errant doesn't vanish, but it is less and less likely a specific earl lives up to that ideal. 
    
    The Drankorian provincial governer has little power over the countryside, but does become something of a powerful figure in Tafolvern (and perhaps, the entire city is only founded in the Drankrorian era)
[2024-03-17 12:07 PM] Deciusmus: The earls also start to spend less / no time in the Feywild, replacing it with time in Tafolvern, where the governer is based, and the governer grows into a position that resolves disputes amongst the earls
[2024-03-17 12:07 PM] Deciusmus: The Oracle of the Riven becomes the focus on Ethlenn's interest, esp because of the magical aspect
[2024-03-17 12:09 PM] Deciusmus: When Drankor falls, and danger comes, the position of monarch develops initially as effectively the Oracle's appointed army commander. The warlock cadres date from the time just after Drankor falls, when Tyrwingha has to look to its own defense, and the core of what later becomes the Army of Mostreve dates from this time as well
[2024-03-17 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: Over the years, the balance of power generally develops as:
    
    * The monarch is the commander in chief of the army, and is responsible for the safety of the borders of Tyrwingha, and for foreign relations, and acts as a spokesperson for the Oracle of the Riven. 
    * In the tradition of the Drankoria governer, the monarch is also the one who is empowered to resolve disputes between the earls. 
    
    But the monarch has little say in the actual governance of the country
[2024-03-17 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: Derik III originally accepts the Tyrwinghan crown basically because he wants to be the commander in chief of an army of warlocks
[2024-03-17 12:12 PM] Deciusmus: His heirs are given the Tyrwinghan crown because Ethlenn/the Oracle of the Riven wants Sembara to be responsible for the defense of the borders of Tyrwinghan - safety in numbers, basically
[2024-03-17 12:14 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that works quite well
[2024-03-17 12:15 PM] Deciusmus: And actually the post-Great War history of Sembaran and Tyrwinghan kings works perfectly for the idea that the Oracle is effectively being told by Ethlenn when to align with Sembara (because of say, upcoming hobgoblin wars) vs when not to (because the Sembaran king is going to be weak)
[2024-03-17 12:16 PM] Deciusmus: I think in modern Tyrwingha, the Oracle is the ultimate authority and are the ones who are still perceied as Ethlenn's advisors. The monarch's authority comes from the Oracle's support.
    
    The Oracle of the Riven maybe is also responsible for selecting earls. That is, it isn't the whole group of earl's who pick new ones, it is also the Oracle
[2024-03-17 12:17 PM] Deciusmus: So you have this shadowy, clearly fey aligned group that is widely still seen to speak for Ethlenn, picking both the monarch and the earls
[2024-03-17 12:18 PM] rsulfuratus: I actually kind of like the earls being elected by their peers, as opposed to the Oracle. I think it sets up more interesting political possibilities than if it is just a shadowy council that controls everything
[2024-03-17 12:19 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I can see that
[2024-03-17 12:20 PM] rsulfuratus: I think the monarch as commander of the army provides a pretty significant check on the ability of the earls to become too independently powerful - and since the core strength of the Tywinghan army is a cadre of warlocks personally obligated to Ethlenn they can't be made to act against Ethlenn's interests
[2024-03-17 12:22 PM] rsulfuratus: this also provides incentive for Sembara to invest in a personal union of the crowd. as Sembara is fairly weak in magic
[2024-03-17 12:23 PM] rsulfuratus: but also explains why it is always just a personal union of the crowns, and Tyrwingha despite a long history is never incorporated into Sembara directly
[2024-03-17 12:23 PM] rsulfuratus: it would probably be good to have some rumors or lore about what the people of Tyrwingha think about Ethlenn's motives, although I think it is probably better to leave the truth unclear
[2024-03-17 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: Maybe your player who is writing the 5000 word backstory can come up with some theories about what Ethlenn gets out of all of this
[2024-03-17 12:25 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah that’s a good idea. I’ll ask her what she thinks

