# Discord DM – 2024-04-27

[2024-04-27 12:43 PM] rsulfuratus: Sketching out a ton of new places for next Dunmar session on Thursday. Mostly expecting you'll learn about it in game but want a second opinion on a bunch of names. 

(this is the northern part of the peninsula, extending northwest from the canal - divided into three provinces in the Chardonian Empire)

Portalia (province around the canal, originally derives from Drankorian for passage)
Nevium (north end of canal city)
Pergia (south end of canal city)
Artevus (another city in this province)

Cedrano (next province to northwest, name derives from the largest river, [[Kedron]], which is an old Northros / Northerner name)
Castrella (provincial capital)
Ombraforte (village or town)

Tamaris (final province, name derives from name for the peninsula, the Tamaro Peninsula; see below for alternatives)
Roccena (roc-CHE-na, provincial capital)
Tenze (TEN-tseh, city/town)
Antissus (city/town)
Sarvia (city/town)
Silbana (river)

Alternative peninsula names:
Maravio (province is Maravium)
Raziano (province in Razianium)

Other city/town/village names:
Telumis
Serraventia
Canophris
[2024-04-27 05:24 PM] Deciusmus: I like the general vibe. Prefer Raziano to Tamaro slightly but really either seems good. Don’t love Maravio
[2024-04-27 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: The end of the session tomorrow might be the breaking of the siege of Fellburn, which in my head is highlighted by a couple of powerful npcs. Do you think say a 15th lvl cleric, a 13th level paladin, and two 11th level clerics is too much magical force for the Duke of Wisford to have brought together?
[2024-04-27 07:08 PM] rsulfuratus: IMO yes
[2024-04-27 07:10 PM] rsulfuratus: I haven't thought super carefully about it, but in general I've tended to not create NPCs who can cast higher than 5th level spells, unless they are supposed to be basically the most powerful people in a kingdom
[2024-04-27 07:11 PM] rsulfuratus: I think it breaks worldbuilding a bit if there are non-PCs who have that much magic. Or I guess rather non-adventurers, counting both PCs and villians
[2024-04-27 07:13 PM] Deciusmus: Isn’t it implausible that there are no super high level clerics in sembara at all though?
[2024-04-27 07:15 PM] Deciusmus: I wasn’t sure about the number — ie would say 3 of the 8 most powerful clerics in sembara really be at this battle. But it seems like there should be say 8-10 clerics of 10+ level, right? I guess maybe half that makes more sense
[2024-04-27 07:15 PM] rsulfuratus: based on this with a population of 25 million (which might be high for Sembara - France in 1500 was more like 15 million), there would be perhaps as many as 13 clerics of level 9+
[2024-04-27 07:15 PM] rsulfuratus: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BdTQmPSFR7LJluyIwFBvLD_036536qHJBSLuhAGjYak/edit#gid=56847170
[2024-04-27 07:16 PM] Deciusmus: (Zs show is about to start so I’ll probably stop responding in a min)
[2024-04-27 07:17 PM] rsulfuratus: a 15th level cleric would likely be the most powerful magic user in Sembara - so I guess the question is, would the most powerful magic user in Sembara be at the seige of Fellburn?
[2024-04-27 07:20 PM] rsulfuratus: at one point (in same spreadsheet) we had calculated about 12 milliion humans in Sembara. So that would imply something like 4 of the 6 most power magic users showing up at Fellburn
[2024-04-27 07:20 PM] Deciusmus: Right that’s too much
[2024-04-27 07:20 PM] Deciusmus: Probably should be 11th and 9th or something
[2024-04-27 07:20 PM] Deciusmus: More later
[2024-04-27 08:07 PM] Deciusmus: So I think I’d revise to have one 13th or so level powerful cleric and then a couple of 7th levels. Plus a 9th or 10th level paladin.
[2024-04-27 08:08 PM] Deciusmus: The 13th probably is one of the 3-4 most powerful casters in sembara (although the spreadsheet suggests about 15 level 9+ casters in sembara)
[2024-04-27 08:09 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that seems sensible
[2024-04-27 08:09 PM] Deciusmus: Actually maybe 11th. Just need them to be high enough level to cast forbiddance
[2024-04-27 08:10 PM] rsulfuratus: sure

