# Discord DM – 2024-09-21

[2024-09-21 09:15 AM] rsulfuratus: thinking a lilttle more about rune keeper / comprehend languages / etc.
    
    i think one reasonable point is that if you are going to get a pick 2 choice from elven ritual magic, it would probably be nice to have a couple more options. this would be easy to add, but i'm having trouble coming up with interesting rituals (or ritual-esque spells, generally non-ritual spells that have a long duration without a benefit to spamming them). 
    
    the other point is that delwath is probably getting the biggest power spike of anyone in the party with the switch (kenzo is close or possibly greater in combat, but delwath gets a lot of new spells, even compared to the playtest, and especially given the rebalancing of a lot of at-will invocations). so is it really that important to squeeze the most value out of every last choice? 
    
    finally, i basically have just today to get the entire colorado adventure written, so i don't really feel like i have a lot of spare bandwidth for extra homebrew.
[2024-09-21 09:18 AM] rsulfuratus: so let me propose this:
    
    if you come up with a couple more options for elven ritual magic that seem  elf-appropriate, i'm absolutely happy to add those elf, and you can take that instead of comprehend languages, and continue to live with rune keeper + tongues
    
    otherwise i just don't really have the bandwidth to homebrew different invocations so kind of feel like you just have to decide whether wasting an invocation slot for the option to read writing you can't touch is worthwhile
[2024-09-21 10:26 AM] Deciusmus: For elves...
    
    Elmerca's Insight: Augury (or does that step on lizardfolk toes?)
    Aldanor's Purity: Purify Food and Drink
    Aldanor's Aide: Unseen Servant (not sure about that one)
    
    Still trying to think of one more for Elmerca. Skywrite maybe but seems a little powerful.
[2024-09-21 10:26 AM] Deciusmus: There are so few ritual spells that it is hard to come up with much
[2024-09-21 10:27 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah this was my problem. was feeling like maybe needed to invent a few equivalent-power rituals to fill things out. 
    
    was trying to avoid augury (lizardfolk) and identify (dwarf)
[2024-09-21 10:27 AM] rsulfuratus: but maybe not committed to last one
[2024-09-21 10:28 AM] rsulfuratus: but you are good at inventing spells so...
[2024-09-21 10:28 AM] Deciusmus: I might play around a bit, Dana is in Florida so I'm spending some time on D&D stuff today
[2024-09-21 10:58 AM] Deciusmus: As far as the rest of it, though, I actually _like_ Comprehend Languages as a elven ritual for Delwath. It fits into his backstory pretty well, and if we were replaying the game with these rules from the start I absolutely would have taken it at 3rd level.
    
    I actually don't even really need another invocation, to be honest. The extra spells are a huge power boost, esp with the revamped patron spells (which frees up even more slots). And just going to 12th level is a big step up as extra metamagic is useful. 
    
    But it just feels crappy to end up with a functionality pointless invocation, even though actually from a overall character perspective having 7 instead of 8 invocations is still mostly a step up.
    
    Partly also the invocations in 2024 are just better; so the opportunity cost feels higher. When I took Rune of Eye Keeper not a lot of the other invocations seemed that appealing, either because I didn't have the levels or because they were tied to Eldritch Blast or very "pact with the devil warlock" vibe-y.
    
    I'm not really looking for a proper "homebrewed" invocation in the sense of something that has well-thought out balance and that you'd publish in D&D Beyond, I'd just like something to make Eyes of the Rune Keeper not feel totally pointless (esp because I feel like Delwath is much closer to Elmerca than Aldanor, and in-game elven comprehend languages really makes the most sense).
    
    My idea was something like: You can understand all spoken or signed languages and read all writing. 
    
    Basically an always on comprehend + existing eye of rune keeper. Mechanically not that different than just casting the spell every 3 hours, but it can't be dispelled, isn't a spell so i.e. could have used it in Ursk, etc.
[2024-09-21 10:59 AM] Deciusmus: but from a power-perspective I'm happy to agree to also take the comprehend language ritual, so mechanically it isn't that different. I don't need even more slots.
[2024-09-21 11:01 AM] rsulfuratus: ah, hmm, i guess i misunderstood a bit. if you want to (a) take comprehend languages elven ritual, and (b) take eyes of the rune keeper, but also (c) handwave that the combination of the two means that comprehend languages is always activate as a "eyes of the rune keeper" effect instead of a spell, that is totally fine by me
[2024-09-21 11:01 AM] rsulfuratus: i thought the problem was spending two character options for the same thing
[2024-09-21 11:02 AM] rsulfuratus: but if you are fine spending two character options for the same thing then it seems reasonable to make them synergistic not conflicting
[2024-09-21 11:02 AM] Deciusmus: It is more that I have so many character options that I don't mind spending 2 of them for the same thing
[2024-09-21 11:02 AM] Deciusmus: As long as there is some kind of synergistic benefit even if just handwaved
[2024-09-21 11:04 AM] rsulfuratus: okay if that's the case then i'd say that while it still might be useful to have say 1 more elmerca and 1 more aldanor elven ritual option if you are feeling inspired, for delwath i'd just set it up as comprehend + eyes and handwave the synergistic interaction
[2024-09-21 11:05 AM] rsulfuratus: it would effectively be like homebrewing eyes of the rune keeper to be an invocation that says: you can read all writing. also if you know the comprehend languages spell, it is always active for you
[2024-09-21 11:06 AM] rsulfuratus: with the not actually a spell caveat
[2024-09-21 11:06 AM] rsulfuratus: (although not clear to me that elven ritual magic itself is actually a spell in the first place)
[2024-09-21 11:06 AM] rsulfuratus: any more than e.g. you could "dispel" the gift of the firstborn and change aldanor elves speed to 30 feet
[2024-09-21 02:35 PM] Deciusmus: Do you remember if there is a way to do up until dates?
[2024-09-21 02:35 PM] Deciusmus: I'm fixing the page for the Army of the South, which was basically disbanded and reformed during my current campaign. I was thinking of writing two descriptions, one for "dates before 1721" and one for "dates after 1721" but I'm not sure if we have a way to do that?
[2024-09-21 02:38 PM] rsulfuratus: I semi-implmeneted this but not sure I ever tested it
[2024-09-21 02:39 PM] rsulfuratus: if the date ends with a letter, it theoretically parses it
[2024-09-21 02:39 PM] rsulfuratus: "b" is the default before behavior
[2024-09-21 02:40 PM] Deciusmus: For now I am just writing the 1720 version in a date block and leaving a `%%` note `%%` for what happens post.
[2024-09-21 02:40 PM] rsulfuratus: "a" strips the comment if the current date is after the date in the comment
[2024-09-21 02:40 PM] rsulfuratus: e.g., "`%%`^Date:1725a`%%`" should remove the text between that and the end block if the current date for the vault export is after 1725
[2024-09-21 02:41 PM] rsulfuratus: but, it might not work because I don't think I ever tested it against anything
[2024-09-21 02:42 PM] rsulfuratus: oh huh actually Arryn III has an "a" tag
[2024-09-21 02:42 PM] rsulfuratus: but it doesn't work because my taelgarverse tag has both versions: https://tsackton.github.io/taelgarverse/people/historical-figures/sembaran-royalty/arryn-iii/
[2024-09-21 02:42 PM] rsulfuratus: so consider it an unimplemented feature
[2024-09-21 03:19 PM] Deciusmus: I'm amusing myself by trying to clean up the unknown status tags. 
    
    I know we've talked about status tags a lot, but two things...
    
    (a) I'm adding status/needswork to stubs that clearly need more info. For example the page for Vimfrost. There is clearly a lot of world information about him, so just filling in the header to have some bio details isn't sufficient.
    
    (b) I'm struggling a bit with the best tag for something that just needs rethinking. i.e. the page for Devils. It reads as basically complete, as far as it goes, but given all the recent discussions aorund metaphysicals of souls and the history of humanity it isn't clear the old info is necssary accurate. Is status/update the right tag for that? Or should we have something like status/needswork/rethink?
[2024-09-21 04:05 PM] rsulfuratus: I've been using status/update specifically for notes that have been affected by recent campaign events. e.g. I think Milo and Tilly might have those
[2024-09-21 04:05 PM] rsulfuratus: I think status/needswork/rethink would be fine, or just base status/needswork
[2024-09-21 04:06 PM] rsulfuratus: I would prefer to keep update specifically to "campaign events have affected this" instead of "not sure this is canon" to have a clear way to say "the stuff on this page in complete but might specifically be out-of-date"
[2024-09-21 04:06 PM] Deciusmus: right makes sense
[2024-09-21 04:06 PM] Deciusmus: I think I'll use status/needswork/rethink
[2024-09-21 04:10 PM] Deciusmus: There is a category of page that's kinda  hard to place..
[2024-09-21 04:12 PM] Deciusmus: I guess more accurately I need a status for "I don't know the status, Tim needs to decide it"
[2024-09-21 04:12 PM] rsulfuratus: what's wrong with status/tim?
[2024-09-21 04:13 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I can do that
[2024-09-21 04:13 PM] Deciusmus: There are a lot of pages like say Adamanatine, which is set status/stub
[2024-09-21 04:13 PM] Deciusmus: But that's wrong, the page already has a complete header
[2024-09-21 04:14 PM] Deciusmus: If it was a page I had created, I'd write a sentence about adamantine and call it done, but I don't know if you have deeper thoughts/interestes in the background of adamantine or not
[2024-09-21 04:14 PM] Deciusmus: But I can just set status/tim on those easily enough that probably works
[2024-09-21 04:15 PM] rsulfuratus: some of those might be old tags - originally status/stub meant "nothing exists yet" rather than "needs a header"
    
    there is also a category of notes that are kind of markers for things that definitely exist in the world, but that i'm not sure what else to say about them
[2024-09-21 04:15 PM] Deciusmus: Right, that's part of what I'm trying to clean up
[2024-09-21 04:16 PM] Deciusmus: But I think it is useful for status/stub to mean "needs header and basic one-two sentences" a
[2024-09-21 04:16 PM] rsulfuratus: so for adamantine - all we know about it (unless there is more that has come up in your game) is that the dwarves near Raven's Hold used to mine it before the great war,  it can be used to make high-quality armor, and it somehow is useful to stabilize or channel or otherwise construct magic items
[2024-09-21 04:17 PM] Deciusmus: For me, things that definitely exist but I am not sure what to say I either set
    (a) status/needswork/blankslate, if I feel like the thing/place/person is very important and kinda needs to have info made up before it could be used
    (b) no status, if the thing/place/person is background-y and not critical, and I don't really know if/when more info would be useful
[2024-09-21 04:17 PM] rsulfuratus: (I agree about status/stub, btw)
[2024-09-21 04:18 PM] Deciusmus: i.e. Embry and Tafolwern gets status/needswork/blankslate - I'd definitely need to do prep for them before anyone shows up
    But something like the Semb river doesn't *need* anything other than a sentence describing where it is. Maybe some color details are nice, but it isn't important. So no need to add the needswork tag
[2024-09-21 04:18 PM] rsulfuratus: right, that makes sense
[2024-09-21 04:19 PM] Deciusmus: But for some pages, I don't know whether in your mind it is more a "blank slate" kind of a thing or a "its done with 1 sentence" kind of thing
[2024-09-21 04:19 PM] Deciusmus: But I'm just going to tag those status/tim with a note on why
[2024-09-21 04:19 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that's fine
[2024-09-21 04:20 PM] rsulfuratus: in some cases there are things that could become a big important thing if i found a reason for it, or could just be meaningless background if it never comes up
[2024-09-21 04:20 PM] rsulfuratus: but i guess that is kind of by definition not "blankslate"
[2024-09-21 04:20 PM] Deciusmus: Right, for those I think leaving empty status is best
[2024-09-21 04:23 PM] Deciusmus: I am also doing a lot of "dump notes from discord into `%%` on the page and set status/needswork/internal
[2024-09-21 04:23 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that is very useful
[2024-09-21 04:23 PM] Deciusmus: the goal here is that in theory, if someone was feeling like "working on taelgar" but didn't have a specific goal, then in theory one thing you could do would be to just pick a random page with status/needswork/internal and rewrite it
[2024-09-21 04:26 PM] Deciusmus: In theory, status/needswork/wip should probably also be accompanied by either status/mike or status/tim and would mean "someone has thoughts/details/in game plans" for this page, don't invent stuff without discussing with them first
    
    whereas status/needswork/external would typically mean "we discussed this in email or discord but the notes are not on this page"
[2024-09-21 04:27 PM] rsulfuratus: status/needswork/external i also use for things that haven't been ported over from OneNote, but i guess generally that should ideally get a comment indicating the external source is onenote so you don't try to find the relevant emails (although usually pretty obvious)
[2024-09-21 04:28 PM] rsulfuratus: one thing that could also be useful - given that my family addermarch game is a lot more likely to overlap with sembara than any of the other things i'm running - is a good way to tag whether there are critical details to reuse a thing that are missing. i guess status/needswork/wip is maybe enough?
[2024-09-21 04:30 PM] rsulfuratus: but, for example, Eskbridge is currently tagged just as `[place]`. but the note is pretty thin. it isn't clear if there is relevant detail that would need to be incorporated if, for example, Nathaniel's character ends up going back home for an adventure
[2024-09-21 04:31 PM] Deciusmus: I think  in general
    
    status/needswork/internal should mean "note is not in good shape, but all the canonical info is somewhere in the shared obsidian repo"
    status/needswork/external with no other tag means "note not in good shape, discussion happened in discord or email, but it is shared"
    status/needswork/blankslate OR alternatively, no status tag means "no ideas really, invent away"
    status/needswork/wip should always have a status/mike or status/tim and the status tag refers to the person who has the ideas
[2024-09-21 04:31 PM] Deciusmus: status/needswork/external with a status/mike or status/tim means "I have details in private/unshared" notes. This is loose. Would sometimes not happen but ideally there would be a `%%` comment although realistically mostly we know who has the notes for external tags
[2024-09-21 04:32 PM] Deciusmus: status/update means "game events have impacted this but are not on the page"
    status/needswork/rethink means "this page probably needs discussion or reconsideration" based on changes elsewhere
[2024-09-21 04:34 PM] Deciusmus: I was also thinking it might be good to have something like
    
    status/active/clee or status/active/addermarch or status/active/dufr
    
    but especially for clee and addermarch
    
    as a way of flagging characters that are active and important and might change from session to session vs more background stuff
[2024-09-21 04:34 PM] Deciusmus: makes sharing easier
[2024-09-21 04:34 PM] rsulfuratus: there are also a handful of other status tags I've used. e.g. header for notes that just need to clean up header information, usually whereabouts, or refactor for notes with kind of complicated metadata that should probably be organized differently (usually for notes that refer to a specific example of an item that is not unique)
[2024-09-21 04:34 PM] rsulfuratus: I like status/active as a general tagging concept as well
[2024-09-21 04:35 PM] Deciusmus: I mean, we probably don't need to bother even with the campaign or other details. But I would find it useful to tell between "background npc" and "important part of addermarch" and it would probably be helpful for you as well with reusing my sembara stuff
[2024-09-21 04:36 PM] rsulfuratus: right, i think probably it is pretty obvious with status/active in what sense it is active
[2024-09-21 04:37 PM] Deciusmus: Right this makes sense.
[2024-09-21 04:37 PM] Deciusmus: So for example, my page for Areschera, one a shapeshifting fey villian in the current adventure for Cleenseau, I've changed from just status/stub to
    
    ---
    tags: `[person, status/active, status/stub, status/needswork/wip, status/mike]`
    ---
[2024-09-21 04:38 PM] Deciusmus: if I get around to typing up what I know, I'd change to just status/active
[2024-09-21 04:39 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that makes sense
[2024-09-21 04:41 PM] Deciusmus: whereas Ascombe, a small village my PCs visited, is
    
    ---
    tags: `[status/stub, status/needswork/wip, status/mike, place]`
    ---
        
    
    but if I wrote up what I know, I'd just change to `[place]` as it was just a waypoint and you could steal if if say you needed a place for a forester to be from in southern Sembara easily enough.
[2024-09-21 04:41 PM] Deciusmus: and finally, Fin Merriweather, a halfling I made up, is just 
    
    ---
    tags: `[status/stub, status/needswork/internal, person]`
    species: halfling
    ---
    
    because I dropped a `%%` on the page with everything I know about him. In theory, if you wanted to rewrite the page you could.
[2024-09-21 05:01 PM] Deciusmus: One other thought... I think for PC pages there is no point in status tags like "needs work". The pc tag should be an indiciation that this page is "special" so if the page has a header and 1-2 sentences I'm going to just delete status
[2024-09-21 05:04 PM] rsulfuratus: on separate topic - do you have any notes on how the traveler is depicted?
[2024-09-21 05:04 PM] Deciusmus: the wanderer you mean?
[2024-09-21 05:04 PM] rsulfuratus: yse wanderer
[2024-09-21 05:06 PM] rsulfuratus: this is what the note says but not sure it is up to date: "The Wanderer is usually depicted as a young man, dressed as a traveler or a merchant, in a cloak, with a walking staff or a scale."
[2024-09-21 05:13 PM] Deciusmus: One sec. Z is having a friend over for a sleepover and he just arrived
[2024-09-21 05:24 PM] Deciusmus: Despite having a player who is a paladin of the Wanderer the specific visual aesthic hasn't come up much. I think the above is basically about right, although I suspect some depictions might focus on the charitible side of him
[2024-09-21 05:26 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not 100% sure what would be though; in my game the focus has very much been on the "charity/outcasts"

