# Discord DM – 2024-02-01

[2024-02-01 12:34 PM] rsulfuratus: nope that is fine
[2024-02-01 12:35 PM] Deciusmus: btw my next game is Sunday, was hoping to use the funeral stuff, if you get a chance to look would be great
[2024-02-01 12:35 PM] rsulfuratus: also I just pushed a few comments on funerary traditions - nothing major basically look great to me
[2024-02-01 01:24 PM] Deciusmus: one note, the Drankor stuff I wrote for my own background but is not something I'm going to publish. I intended it to be "canonical inspiration for Sembara" but not necessarily a canonical representation of what Drankorians actually did
[2024-02-01 05:02 PM] Deciusmus: I did one more pass through what I wrote, and updated the Tyrwingha page. Mostly reorganization, so there is a page in "Brainstorming" for ideas. I moved some of your notes into brainstorming or incorporated into the body of the text.
    
    Will likely publish tomorrow after I do a little bit of NPC cleanup
[2024-02-01 05:02 PM] Deciusmus: If you get a chance the main thing to look at would be Tyrwingha
[2024-02-01 05:53 PM] rsulfuratus: i think it all looks good. i might at some point flesh out in a bit more detail some of the religious history, both the northern folk religions and the dunmari have a basic framework of "we need to help ensure the soul gets to the land of the dead but then the gods take over" vs mos numena "the gods will make sure the soul makes it to the land of the dead, but we need to help with the journey"
[2024-02-01 05:54 PM] rsulfuratus: i think in terms of actual metaphysics both transitions are potentially fraught
[2024-02-01 06:00 PM] rsulfuratus: but it is probably the case that the small gods of the northern folk religions (which also probably represent the original human religious tradition, more or less) actually do have more desire/capacity to shepherd souls, as they have always seemed more physically real than the more archetypal gods (mos numena, kaikkea)
[2024-02-01 06:01 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah. I assume that both transitions are technically fraught, but that the religious traditions developed in part because the gods actually do (mostly) do the things people think they do
[2024-02-01 06:02 PM] rsulfuratus: well there is probably something of a feedback loop as well
[2024-02-01 06:03 PM] Deciusmus: It seems wrong to me that Drankor or Sembara would develop a totally false belief that the gods handle the sheparding of the soul into the land of the dead, if there wasn't some real truth to it.
    
    I mean, presumably the reason all this stuff happens is because a group of humans with no death traditions at all, who just didn't bother, would in fact by plagued by ghosts and the like
[2024-02-01 06:04 PM] rsulfuratus: sure
[2024-02-01 06:10 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that the basic idea is that the gods do the best they can but are fundamentally not omnipotent outside their own realms. 
    
    death traditions are a way of amplifying the gods power and filling in gaps, in a sense.
[2024-02-01 06:12 PM] rsulfuratus: but also different gods have different strengths in some metaphysical sense. the small gods are, well, small, and so there is some sense that an individual god actually reaches into the land of the dead and follows/protects souls on the journey. but they don't have a lot of power on the material plane. 
    
    mos numena has a lot of power so easier to protect the transition to the land of the dead, but then have a bit less influence, etc
[2024-02-01 06:12 PM] rsulfuratus: none of this set in stone, just noodling a bit
[2024-02-01 06:13 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, I like the direction
[2024-02-01 06:16 PM] rsulfuratus: the general religious history idea is basically you start with small gods that are somewhat weak individually but which can intecede with arhat and malik on your behalf, but they are kind of like a personal protector. so if they can find your soul they can protect it. 
    
    then you have kind of a variety of transitional forms, eventually culmunating in urban Hkar tradition that becomes mos numena, where the gods are these strong, powerful archetypes, with tons of power to grant miracles, but much less personal.
[2024-02-01 06:19 PM] rsulfuratus: on elves - I think my vision is that this isn't a longing for something else, or a weariness of the world, but more of just a feeling that this time is complete. it would be like a sense of "doneness" more than anything else.
[2024-02-01 06:20 PM] Deciusmus: I like that

