# Discord DM – 2024-07-14

[2024-07-14 07:56 PM] Deciusmus: Do you have any specific thoughts about writing systems? Kiya and I were talking a bit about what Sylvan writing is actually like
[2024-07-14 08:27 PM] rsulfuratus: I have a feeling, although not certain, that the first writing was done by the titans, dragons, archfey, and primordial elementals. The elder folk adopted it. So my guess would be sylvan ->` elven, giant ->` stoneborn, dwarven. Halflings probably developed writing late as their “native magic” is not written, and probably adopted an alphabet from somewhere.
[2024-07-14 08:29 PM] rsulfuratus: So it might be that elvish and sylvan share an alphabet. But open to other ideas
[2024-07-14 08:29 PM] Deciusmus: That was my exact thought as well
[2024-07-14 08:29 PM] Deciusmus: Not the share an alphabet necessarily but that writing originated with the fey and titans
[2024-07-14 08:30 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah
[2024-07-14 08:30 PM] rsulfuratus: Well, dragons also but they probably didn’t pass on writing in the same way. Draconic writing is probably inherently magical
[2024-07-14 08:32 PM] Deciusmus: I also kinda think that humans on Hkar created (or were given) their own writing system, not derived from the titan or fey line
[2024-07-14 08:34 PM] Deciusmus: So from that (and a bit of reading about human writing systems and some ideas from Kiya) I was thinking something like...
    
    The original titans developed a runic system that embodied their crafting and creation. The key thing about runic systems is that (at least, some people theorize) letters also stand in for words. Which seems very appropriate for titans ->` dwarves ->` stoneborn
[2024-07-14 08:36 PM] Deciusmus: The fey similarly developed a writing system, but I have this sense it is very complex. Perhaps logographic with many characters, and perhaps complex in some other way (the characters have different meanings depending on some notion of time/place?).
    
    The elves then were taught this fey system by Elmerca, but simplified it substantially for their own use, effectively evolving it into a proper alphabet
[2024-07-14 08:38 PM] Deciusmus: The humans on Hkar then developed their own system, which evolved into a couple of different lineages, in the same way the Phonecian alphabet became Greek + Latin + Cyrllic.
    
    These lineages become the Northros/Drankorian/Eastros alphabets which are the main "known" human alphabets (although perhaps the original northern alphabet is lost or was changed in some way or replacd by Drankorian in many cases)

