# Discord DM – 2024-07-07

[2024-07-07 03:51 PM] rsulfuratus: Idea for refactoring items, based on thinking about magic items in Taelgar.
    
    1) Magic items are typically created based on using specific semi-magical objects to bind/capture extraplanar energy, typically much easier at an extraplanar weak point. In general, this means that to create a magic item, you generally need to know the formula, in some ways analgous to spells.
    
    2) Magic items have the same power law as spellcasters, so most magic items are common, and very few are exceptionally strong. However, while all artifacts have some kind of story, that doesn't mean a common item can't have a story. 
    
    Separately a mechanical level, there is a reason to make the world conform to some general D&D rules. Most non-legendary, non-artifact magic items in D&D sourcebooks shouldn't be unique mechanically Taelgar, and the lore of magic items should have it make sense that certain items tend to be easy to find.
[2024-07-07 03:56 PM] rsulfuratus: From this I can think of a few things that are maybe worth thinking about.
    
    1) Some items -- Drankorian Sending Stones; Skaer masterwork weapons; Lakan monastery extradimensional storage -- have "standard" D&D mechanics (mostly) but are in-world part of a specific workshop tradition. These feel interesting and useful to track
[2024-07-07 03:56 PM] Deciusmus: So far in my game the basic pattern has been… 
    
    Most items are fairly similar to specific D&D items, but often not in the exact form..
    
    Ie a ring that has the same game effect as a pearl of power (rather than a pearl)
    
    Also, I’ve usually made up some brief history even for “common” magic items, and I haven’t shied away from simple made up items, i.e an amulet with three stones each of which heals
[2024-07-07 03:57 PM] Deciusmus: (You can see this in my Cleenseau treasure folder)
[2024-07-07 03:58 PM] rsulfuratus: 2) Some items -- a pearl of power is a good example -- are well known formula that recur, but at least so far are not things that come from a "workshop tradition". But these are not explicitly unique items, and would in world be broadly considered "the same" from an arcane perspective
[2024-07-07 03:59 PM] rsulfuratus: 3) Some items are truly unique. They are creations that you wouldn't expect to see again, and have some unique creation story. Some of these are powerful artifacts (Ring of Undying, e.g.), others might be less powerful but still unique (Delwath's shield, naragil)
[2024-07-07 04:00 PM] rsulfuratus: Note that one might reuse the mechanics of a unique item in some circumstances, but from an in world mechanical perspective it would be a different formula in some sense
[2024-07-07 04:02 PM] rsulfuratus: The lore thing I'm most interested in is the distinction between 1 and 2.
    
    In an obsidian context, I would likely want to always have a page for (1) and (3). 
    (a) a page for "Drankorian sending stones" but not pages for each representative, unless there was meaningful history to track
    (b) a page for any item in category #3
    (c) a page for any item in category #2 that had
[2024-07-07 04:02 PM] rsulfuratus: oops that was a bit garbled
[2024-07-07 04:02 PM] rsulfuratus: the idea is you'd make pages for (1) and (3) always, but only for individual representatives of (1) or (2) if the story warranted it
[2024-07-07 04:03 PM] rsulfuratus: but I'm not sure if this matches with your magic item creation workflow
[2024-07-07 04:04 PM] Deciusmus: I’ve had a tendency to assume that magic items are very hard to destroy and haven’t thought much about how they come to be
[2024-07-07 04:05 PM] rsulfuratus: right your players haven't asked for custom magic powers on their flying castle yet I presume
[2024-07-07 04:05 PM] Deciusmus: By that I mean I thought more about the history
[2024-07-07 04:05 PM] Deciusmus: Ie a Drankorian shield that was unearthed or a Sembaran war hammer that was buried with a knight or whatever
[2024-07-07 04:06 PM] Deciusmus: Magic items have mostly had a specific “ancient” source in my game so far
[2024-07-07 04:07 PM] Deciusmus: But I think the general ideas you outlined make sense, except I think I’ve leaned into a little bit more creativity and likelihood for group #2
[2024-07-07 04:07 PM] rsulfuratus: right, I think in that context your magic items are much "cleaner" from an obisidian point of view. if each item has a clear history then it likely deserves its own page (if only for campaign notes type info) and how it was created doesn't necessarily matter.
[2024-07-07 04:08 PM] rsulfuratus: but you guys have a lot of magic items without a clear history, or just vague notes about who created it (since by default that is the easiest thing to improvise in the mirror if I at least know where and when it was created)
[2024-07-07 04:09 PM] Deciusmus: Right. From a notes perspective your division makes sense
[2024-07-07 04:10 PM] rsulfuratus: for example I will probably make a page for the Urskan monster part trade but not make individual pages for everything you bought in the market in Zvervinka
[2024-07-07 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: Also it is probably useful to think about some common archetypes, other than bags of holding / sending stones / Skaer weapons
[2024-07-07 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: Yes this makes a lot of sense to me
[2024-07-07 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: We got all but 1 word in spelling bee btw Dana says to tell you
[2024-07-07 04:12 PM] rsulfuratus: Im missing a 9 letter D and a 7 letter I
[2024-07-07 04:12 PM] Deciusmus: I like the general idea of “workshop traditions” plus “common formulas” plus “unique items”
[2024-07-07 04:13 PM] Deciusmus: We are missing a FE
[2024-07-07 04:13 PM] rsulfuratus: do you have Felid?
[2024-07-07 04:13 PM] Deciusmus: Nope
[2024-07-07 04:14 PM] rsulfuratus: Going to think about this a bit -- if Kate is into her book I might work on item refactor tonight
[2024-07-07 04:15 PM] Deciusmus: I think I wouldn’t necessarily assume the D&D rules are exactly the common formulas though. Ie I introduced an amulet with one-time healing abilities which was described as an embodied miracle of the Mother passed down as a family heirloom. I can imagine things like that being common-ish in Sembara
[2024-07-07 04:15 PM] rsulfuratus: right, it doesn't have to strictly connect to mechanics or D&D sourcebooks
[2024-07-07 04:17 PM] Deciusmus: But actually thinking about those categories helps refine items. For example
    Boots of false tracks are pretty common. Why? Could be fun to make up and then just make a page for the general item
[2024-07-07 04:17 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah
[2024-07-07 04:18 PM] rsulfuratus: some could be just that weak effects are easy to create, but others could be a specific reason. e.g, the Dunmari army during the Dharajun Dynasty made a large number of horn of silent alarms and so they are commonly found around Dumar and typically date to the Great War and immediately pre-Great War era
[2024-07-07 06:13 PM] rsulfuratus: doing a major rework of items. kind of into it. pushing as I go in case you are interested.
    
    one question: I assume you don't really care if you can figure out what items I have backstory invented for. my plan is to significantly trim secrets, and generally make pages for anything that has a notable secret even if the item itself might not otherwise warrant a page.
[2024-07-07 06:13 PM] Deciusmus: no, I don't care

