# Discord DM – 2024-08-15

[2024-08-15 06:02 PM] Deciusmus: Do you know what happened to Cloudspinner and are keeping it secret for game/plot reasons or do you just not know?
[2024-08-15 06:04 PM] Deciusmus: I'm potentially setting up my PCs to care a bit about her fate. Not that it will come up soon or anything but they might at some point want to do something like go haring off to try to save her.
    
    (Given that I'm setting up Greymalkin as a refugee from Amberglow, and that they are all the kind of people who hear the words "good fey mysteriously imprisoned" and immediately think  "um, maybe we should free her")
    
    I guess canonically they can't possibly free her because she isn't free in 1748.
[2024-08-15 06:04 PM] rsulfuratus: Yes I know exactly what happened to her and can't tell you (yet)
[2024-08-15 06:05 PM] rsulfuratus: But you will almost certainly have more information before it becomes relevant in your game
[2024-08-15 06:06 PM] rsulfuratus: Note that probably all Greymalkin would know is that Cloudspinner mysteriously vanished
[2024-08-15 06:08 PM] rsulfuratus: I think the only way you learned she was imprisoned was the meta-narrative in the intro to the Amberglow / Caulaus session
[2024-08-15 06:15 PM] Deciusmus: right, that makes sense
[2024-08-15 06:15 PM] Deciusmus: how's this
    
    "Seven hundred years ago, to the south, the Cloudspinner, Queen of Sunsets ruled the fey realm of Amberglow. How I wish I had seen it in those days. It is said to have been a land where the glorious colors of the evening sun turned the sky and the grass and the water and the rocks to ever-changing paintings." He stops and shrugs in a way that points at his bright coloring. "It was a place aflame with color and joy, I am told."
    
    "But she vanished - to where, no one knows - and the land decayed. The colors seeped out of it, and darkness and danger moved in. But not all was lost, for in pockets and hidden crannies, those loyal to the Cloudspinner kept hope alive. I was born in one of those pockets, ~name tbd~, in the days before the Great War, about 200 years ago."
[2024-08-15 06:18 PM] Deciusmus: haven't written more yet but the basic narrative is that about 100 years ago, this pocket of safety fell to Umbraeth
[2024-08-15 06:18 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that's about right, timing might be slightly off, the exact date of cloudspinners disapperance is sometime after 950 - when the orcs of the people of the rainbow started to leave amberglow and before 1059 - fall of drankor
[2024-08-15 06:20 PM] rsulfuratus: there is a random bit that I just made up without context about the resistance to the decay in the cloudspinner page you can steal from if you want
[2024-08-15 06:20 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I was looking at that
[2024-08-15 06:21 PM] Deciusmus: I guess “more than seven hundred years” is a better opening

