# Discord DM – 2024-03-24

[2024-03-24 10:21 AM] Deciusmus: As Kiya - my player  currently writing lots of backstory - writes stuff, it occurred to me that maybe one of the things the fey do in Tyrwingha is protect the place from other weirdness. 
    
    Sembara has a lot of guards and walls around towns, but I think that’s much less common in Tyrwingha. The wild places are full of fey, instead, and although some fey can be dangerous, many fey instead scare off - directly or indirectly - other dangers
[2024-03-24 10:23 AM] Deciusmus: This is part of why there is a tradition in Tyrwinghan villages, especially rural ones, of watching and maintaining fey spaces. People might not understand exactly the bargain, but ultimately having fey around helps keep these small villages safe
[2024-03-24 10:23 AM] Deciusmus: Thoughts?
[2024-03-24 10:25 AM] rsulfuratus: I like it - I would add that it is probably precisely because of the tradition of watching and tending the fey spaces that the fey help, in a sense. it isn't just having fey around, it is maintaining the fey bargain that keeps the village safe
[2024-03-24 10:25 AM] Deciusmus: Yeah that’s the implication I was going for
[2024-03-24 10:26 AM] rsulfuratus: so you might have tales of villages where something went wrong, they were attacked by zombies or whatever, and the assumption is that someone forgot to tend to the fey. maybe that is actually what happened
[2024-03-24 10:26 AM] Deciusmus: Although I’m not sure people in a Tyrwinghan village would necessarily know or see it as “keeping us safe” vs “maintaining ancient tradition”
[2024-03-24 10:27 AM] rsulfuratus: i think not precisely keeping us safe, but I think there would be an understanding of some kind of bargain. the fey are not unconditional allies, but if you maintain the traditions and rites, you village has good luck and prospers, and if you don't, you have bad luck
[2024-03-24 10:27 AM] Deciusmus: Right
[2024-03-24 10:27 AM] Deciusmus: Yeah that’s perfect
[2024-03-24 10:28 AM] rsulfuratus: in fact this could ultimately play back into the bargain with Ethlenn. maybe for some reason Ethlenn's realm became something of a haven for many fey who missed the material world after the Riving, and part of her deal with Tyrwingha is precisely to leave space for her fey subjets who want to return to the material plane
[2024-03-24 10:29 AM] rsulfuratus: I think the full history is probably more complicated but that could be part of it
[2024-03-24 10:30 AM] Deciusmus: Ah, I like that.

