# Discord DM – 2024-07-19

[2024-07-19 09:34 AM] rsulfuratus: pretty busy today but noodling a bit when I have time. Rewrote the summary as:
    
    The `**`Age of Myth**, when the multiverse was new, a period before time itself was created. The Age of Myth begin with the first act of creation and are a time of the archfey, titans, elements, and great wyrms, a time when the power of arcane magic coursed unchecked through the multiverse and altering reality was as simple as a thought. This age ends with [[The Riving]] when the [[Divine Presence]] separates the planes of existence from each other and creates the [[Material Plane]]. This was a time of huge empires and incredible acts of magic, but also of much chaos.
    
    The `**`Age of Creation** began after [[The Riving]], when the multiverse was created, and ended with the [[Creation of Humans]] and the breaking of the barriers that contained and constrained the creative force of ~soulstuff~. It was during the Age of Creation that the [[Elder Folk|oldest sentient species]] of Taelgar were created by [[Embodied Gods]], when the vast civilizations of [[elves]], [[Dwarves|dwarves]], [[Lizardfolk|lizardfolk]], and others spread across the world. This is the golden age of the non-human species, but also a time that lacked dynamism. Little changed or was truly new in this age, as the Firstborn of the Elder Folk encouraged sameness and uniformity.
[2024-07-19 09:34 AM] rsulfuratus: The `**`Age of Divinity** began with the [[Creation of Humans]], and the shattering of the walls that isolated the [[Material Plane]] and kept the creative force of ~soulstuff~ from affecting the wider multiverse. Humans, created by the [[Divine Presence]] itself on [[Hkar]], were unlike anything that had come before, for they were granted the Divine Spark, the ability of their beliefs to shape the very reality of the multiverse, creating [[Incorporeal Gods]] out of the material of creation itself. This was an age of great change, as the greatest hopes and darkest fears of humanity were manifest in ~soulstuff~. It was also an age when other, darker things were created by the machinations of the [[Void Mind]]. The Age of Divinity ended with the the [[The Downfall|Downfall]], the destruction of [[Hkar]], and the diminishment of the power of the Divine Spark on the [[Material Plane]]. 
    
    The `**`Age of Humanity** began with the sinking of [[Hkar]] and the reshaping of the world that accompanied the [[The Downfall|Downfall]]. This age saw the rise and fall of Drankor, and the rise and fall of Cha'mutte, and much growth and change among human cultures. This age saw, for the first time, humanity growing to dominant the cultures of Taelgar, and the history of this age is dominated by the history of humanity.
[2024-07-19 12:40 PM] Deciusmus: I like it
[2024-07-19 12:46 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed a few small tweaks...still working through in 5-10 minute chunks around more pressing actual work
[2024-07-19 12:56 PM] Deciusmus: Is it better to add feedback here or push my own tweaks?
[2024-07-19 12:58 PM] Deciusmus: One comment:
    
    >` Throughout the long [[Age of Creation]], the [[Land of the Dead]] formed an impermeable barrier to the magic of creation, through which only the [[Embodied Gods]] could reach
[2024-07-19 12:58 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not sure it matters, but is this metaphysically true? Also, if the barrier is truely strong, does that mean there are no clerics / divine magic until humans are created?
[2024-07-19 01:00 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not sure the metaphysics of the barrier matter nor questions like where do souls come from.
[2024-07-19 01:13 PM] rsulfuratus: Implication is supposed to be that divine magic comes from the firstborn who can reach through. But agree probably not worth spending a ton of time on
[2024-07-19 01:15 PM] rsulfuratus: But metaphysically just supposed to set up the contrast with age of divinity when outer planes get created beyond those associated with embodied gods
[2024-07-19 01:26 PM] Deciusmus: right. might be worth clarifying the impact, i.e. (although secondarily, could the embodied gods reach through easily, i.e. unlike in the current age, could gods act more easily and directly on the world?)
    
    
    Throughout the long [[Age of Creation]], the [[Land of the Dead]] formed an impermeable barrier to the magic of creation. Although the [[Embodied Gods]] could reach across this barrier, to grant miracles and change the Material Plane, the magic of souls could not act, except through the Embodied Gods.
[2024-07-19 01:26 PM] Deciusmus: Or something
[2024-07-19 06:39 PM] rsulfuratus: re: multiverse, pushed this:
    
    While there are many ways to describe the multiverse, the most widely known comes from elven scholars, who describe the multiverse a pair of intersecting domes: the below, the dome of the physical planes rising from the roiling chaos of the [[Plane of Magic]]; above, the dome of the planes of sentience, descending from the blinding intensity of the [[Plane of Creation]].  
    
    The duality of the [[Material Plane]] -- the physical structures of the universe -- and the [[Plane of Souls]] -- the soul structures of the sentient inhabitants of the universe -- sit in the middle of these domes, the Material Plane anchored to the dome of physicality, the Plane of Souls anchored to the dome of sentience. 
    
    Descending "below" the material plane in this cosmology is the [[Ethereal Plane]], which stretches from the border ethereal, co-localizing with the material plane, through the interior ethereal, a foggy expanse of swirling mists, to the deep ethereal, which bleeds into the [[Plane of Magic]]. Embedded within the "sea" of the [[Ethereal Plane]] are the [[Energy Realms]], chief among them the [[Elemental Planes]], domains of pure physicality, capturing the essence of the fundamental elements of the universe.
[2024-07-19 06:39 PM] rsulfuratus: Floating "above" the plane of souls in this cosmology is the [[Astral Plane]], which is bisected by the [[Land of the Dead]], a collecting point for souls and an not-quite-impermeable barrier separating the raw energy of creation from the [[Material Plane]]. Beyond the [[Land of the Dead]], the [[Astral Plane]] is a strange empty expanse of silvery waves, in which the [[Spiritual Realms]] float like bubbles, until it merges with the blinding energy of the [[Plane of Creation]]. 
    
    Layered on top of this cosmology, the elven scholars speak of the [[Echo Realms]], the distortions and reflections and reverberations of the planes created by [[The Riving]], which still resonance today. Most notably, these include the [[Feywild]], an echo of the material plane, and the [[Dreamworld]], an echo of the plane of souls, but others have been described, including the domains of the [[Shadowfell]], the [[Nightmare Realm]], and the [[Mirror Realm]].
[2024-07-19 09:24 PM] Deciusmus: I like that. I was playing around with using Shadowfells (plural) rather than Shadowfell, as a way to express the idea of different independent domains better

