# Discord DM – 2024-04-01

[2024-04-01 02:11 PM] rsulfuratus: opened PR to merge religion / gods reorg into main when you have a chance to look
[2024-04-01 04:54 PM] Deciusmus: looked at it briefly; I didn't review the status/mike stuff but the structure seems sensible. you should go ahead and merge it
[2024-04-01 05:35 PM] Deciusmus: Kiya (Celyn's player) asked why Sembarans are distrustful of magic, anyhing you'd add / change about the below (haven't sent it yet):
    
    There is no one event or specific reason why wizards are distrusted in Sembara, but there is a long cultural tradition dating back hundreds of years that is suspicious of "learned magic" and in particular magic as something you study and unpack how it works and then use that knowledge to make more of it. Where exactly it developed none of you would know, but since the Great War, a number of events have occurred that enforce and seem to confirm the suspicion. The most notable was the story of Elaine I and her twin sister Anne, which is long and tragic and something I will write up in more detail sometime - but in is briefest form there was a contest for the throne between Elaine and Anne, and in the course of that contest Anne studied magic deeply so she could learn to cast a powerful geas to force Elaine to give up the throne. This ended up failing (was found out, and undone) but it was seen as a confirmation of the worst things about wizards. The year after Anne's treachery was the Cursed Cold, when for five months fire radiated cold, not heat, and the days grew colder, not warmer, as the sun rose. This devastated the areas it impacted (cooking and growing crops are both hard without heat) and was seen by many as somehow related to Anne's treachery and a cost the entire kingdom bore for her magic. 
    
    (There is also the story of how Drankor fell, 700-ish years ago - a red mist that spread throughout the land killing millions - supposedly caused by the mages of Drankor, somehow - Drankor was obsessed as a civilization with understanding magic, or so it is said).
[2024-04-01 05:35 PM] Deciusmus: More broadly, there are other similar cultural stories that share the message: magic is something to worship, or be in awe of, or philosophize about, marvel at, accept as a gift, etc but studying how it works, unpicking the central mystery is seen as dangerous (choosing to mess around with forces you can't ever really understand), potentially nefarious (too many stories of research or other deep delving into the secrets of magic leading to corruption and evil, i.e. no one thinks Anne in the story above started out bad), and in some cases, a little bit sacreligious (magic is a gift of the Sibyl, trying to learn magic is like trying to force your way into her good graces - that said, in Tollen the Sibyl is the patron of the university of magic, so this isn't a universal interpretation of her).
    
    It wouldn't be right to oversell the prejudice either. Wizards are not hunted on sight, or anything like that. But many emigrate, i.e. to Tollen or Chardon, where magic is more accepted, and there are not many teachers, etc so they end up being rarer than other types of magic users. Interestingly, a wild magic sorcerer doesn't encounter the same prejudice, even though they may literally be dangerous to those around them - to a Sembaran, they were born with their magic, and so it isn't them choosing to be dangerous by delving into deep secrets. 
    These are broadly Tyrwinghan beliefs as well, although in Tyrwingha there would be the added wrinkle of the fey. Famously, Ethlenn wanted to learn Drankorian magical secrets, and that plays into this idea that exploring the deep secrets of how magic works is too dangerous for mortals, and is best left to the fey.
[2024-04-01 08:31 PM] rsulfuratus: I think this is basically right. One minor detail I would change is that the University in Tollen is not really a "magic university", and indeed the study of magic is a pretty minor part of the scholarship and learning at the university. Tollen is a lot more open and accepting of magic that Sembara, but there is a pretty strong contrast between e.g. Chardon and Tollen in terms of just how much organized magic you see walking around.
[2024-04-01 08:33 PM] rsulfuratus: I would also add that it isn't so much that wizards are hunted on sight or anything (they aren't), but that scholarly organizations and secret societies dedicated to the study of magic just never really get established in Sembara and are fairly strongly discouraged. So a lone wizard in their tower taking an appentice might be seen as a bit dangerous, a bit eccentic, but not someone you'd drive out of town; while something like the Society of the Open Scroll would be at a minimum forced underground if not outright driven out
[2024-04-01 08:36 PM] rsulfuratus: Finally I think the Tyrwinghan belief that probing the deep secrets of arcane magic is too dangerous for mortals and best left to the fey is a fairly common feeling across Sembara, probably spreading from Tyrwingha to some extent
[2024-04-01 08:45 PM] Deciusmus: Right, that all makes sense. This is in the context of an NPC they met, a wizard in Rinburg, who led, and is being blamed for the failure of, the first attempt to kill the lake monster
[2024-04-01 08:46 PM] Deciusmus: So the vibe has beeen a bit of prejudice and quickness to judge, i.e. it is clearly her fault. But also not like people are trying to drive her out of time or anything (and clearly she was powerful/important enough that she was in a position to help led the previous assault)
[2024-04-01 08:48 PM] rsulfuratus: Right, I think part of the vibe is that arcane magic is quite dangerous and quick to go wrong, which seems like it fits well. This probably develops even more strongly after all the fallout of the weird magic during the blood years in sembara and then the whole Elaine and Anne thing
[2024-04-01 09:08 PM] Deciusmus: do you think random PCs would know who the 3 despairs are?
[2024-04-01 09:17 PM] rsulfuratus: I’m not sure. Originally I have kind of thought of that as elven lore but also not sure what is gained by keeping them secret?
[2024-04-01 09:20 PM] Deciusmus: (I am writing another play-by-email scene) and this wizard, who is obsessed with transformation, definitely knows of them, and is going to mention one of her nightmares is the werewolves of the Mad One (i.e forced transformation). Just trying to decide how much to meta-explain vs wait for them to ask about.
    
    I think in general I'm going to wait for them to ask I think it is kinda reasonable that any relatively learned person might have read of them (i.e. say Armand) but a 23 year old Tyrwinghan farmboy probably not
[2024-04-01 09:22 PM] rsulfuratus: Right, I think that makes sense. There would be rumors and lore that is accessible in world to generally learned knowledgable people but they are not default knowledge

