# Discord DM – 2024-09-12

[2024-09-12 12:14 PM] rsulfuratus: i pushed updated versions of dwarf and lizardfolk (Campaigns/Mechanics/Playing a ....), and some comments on design decisions. might work a little bit on stoneborn if i have time while i'm eating lunch. will be teaching from 1:30 pm - 5 pm so won't be able to discuss anything this afternoon
[2024-09-12 12:15 PM] rsulfuratus: (elf and halfling also there but not updated from the versions on d&d beyond)
[2024-09-12 01:34 PM] Deciusmus: A few thoughts on Dwarves:
    
    Binthuhr dwarves: I think they should get an origin feat + bonus skill prof. Just origin feat seems weak. (Although maybe from a lore perspective binthuhr dwarves should be weaker?)
    
    Blessings:
    a) Maganna's Blessing of Communication. The change-language-on-long-rest feels good and interesting. I'd keep it.
    
    b) Uzdan's Blessing of Leadership. Fine for now. I do think something that isn't just a worse musician or worse inspiring leader would be better. I prefer this to a temp HP as from a flavor perspective "musician" is very specific
[2024-09-12 01:36 PM] rsulfuratus: re: Binthuhr, the logic is 120 feet darkvision is as good as a skill proficiency, so compared to humans they are fairly balanced. but also i don't really expect anyone to play one so i'm not sure how much it really matters. the main goal is to make them not feel obviously stronger than regular dwarves
[2024-09-12 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: I guess it depends on whether human heroic inspiration is really balanced against stonecunning or not
[2024-09-12 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: I guess slightly weaker than human is fine though
[2024-09-12 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: I don't have strong feelings
[2024-09-12 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: And I can see how origin feat + skill might make them seem arguably stronger, which is bad
[2024-09-12 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: So you are probably right
[2024-09-12 01:38 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah humans are fairly strong as it is so slightly weaker is not bad imo, the main goal is if Isaac is reading the new dwarf his first thought is not "why i am i bothering with a thuhr?"
[2024-09-12 01:38 PM] Deciusmus: Runes:
    
    I like Fanrukel's Insight. It might be a little weak but it is situationally unique, so I think gains from that perspective (and for a player/character who cares about arcana/history/etc rolls feels valuable).
[2024-09-12 01:39 PM] rsulfuratus: right, i like that there isnt any other way to do replace this
[2024-09-12 01:39 PM] rsulfuratus: which makes it more valuable than just another spell imo
[2024-09-12 01:39 PM] Deciusmus: And I know my player would love to have 6 of these sitting around @ 20th level which in practice is basically equal to the rogue's reliable talent (for knowledge skills only), and feels reasonable for a high powered character
[2024-09-12 01:41 PM] Deciusmus: Goodberry I think is fine also. It is relatively stronger at low levels, in that it provides effectively a constantly renewing potion of healing. But I don't think it is useless at high levels, you just need to start thinking about it as, i.e. being used to feed a platoon or whatever, rather than just the PCs
[2024-09-12 01:45 PM] Deciusmus: For Locate Stone or Ore, what about adding the "not moving" and/or "not on a creature" as a qualifier? Alternatively, what is wrong with the "nearest"  from the original dwarf? Separately, I think losing the ability to generically sense kinda hurts the flavor a bit.
[2024-09-12 01:46 PM] rsulfuratus: the problem with nearest is it just ends up detected all your coins. it is a bit tricky to get the flavor right and i'm still iterated on this i think.
[2024-09-12 01:46 PM] rsulfuratus: in seeker's ability, there are two options: unworked/raw stuff is generic sense, worked stuff you need to specify
[2024-09-12 01:46 PM] rsulfuratus: seeker mostly uses the unworked option but to me that is actually kind of useless because who really cares if there is a vein of silver 200 feet into a cliff face?
[2024-09-12 01:48 PM] rsulfuratus: it is also particularly annoying to run for just a generic everything sense because it is either a universal treasure sensor (too strong) or it is detecting something you would rarely/ever specify in advance (raw material)
[2024-09-12 01:49 PM] rsulfuratus: my feeling from Eric is that he tries to use it but it never really feels like there is a payoff so dont want to be limited to the mechanics that exist - trying to make it more useful
[2024-09-12 01:49 PM] Deciusmus: Hrm. I see the point
[2024-09-12 01:49 PM] Deciusmus: For Flame Ward, I'd just leave it and increase the duration to 1 hour.
[2024-09-12 01:50 PM] Deciusmus: although maybe that is too strong...
[2024-09-12 01:54 PM] rsulfuratus: Isaac will almost certainly pick that for his Taelgar dwarf so planning on just seeing if 10 minutes feels too weak, that is best to just playtest imo
[2024-09-12 01:56 PM] Deciusmus: what about:
    
    #### Tarbaka's Flame Ward
    `**`Casting Time:** 1 Action
    **Range:** Self
    **Components:** V, S, M
    **Duration:** 1 hour
    
    One of your appendages becomes immune to fire damage. While this effect is active, you can use your Reaction when you take Fire damage to gain resistance to the triggering damage. The first melee attack you make on your next turn that hits does an additional 1d6 fire damage.
    
    When you use your Reaction in this way, the Flame Ward ends.
[2024-09-12 01:56 PM] Deciusmus: Basically Absorb Elements but with a long term secondary effect
[2024-09-12 01:57 PM] rsulfuratus: I like that actually, gives it a bit more utility if you want to hop through lava or something
[2024-09-12 01:58 PM] Deciusmus: (and actually absorb elements gives you resistance to all damage of the trggering type until the start of your next turn)
[2024-09-12 01:58 PM] Deciusmus: (which I'd keep)
[2024-09-12 01:58 PM] Deciusmus: So basically... 1 hour duration for the "appendage immunity" plus a one-time usage of absorb elements (fire). 
    
    Feels balanced (it is basically mechanically similar to just being able to cast absorb elements) but with a nice fun rider effect
[2024-09-12 01:59 PM] rsulfuratus: now teaching so offline for 3 hours

