# Discord DM – 2024-09-20

[2024-09-20 12:01 AM] rsulfuratus: here is my current list. struggling with level 3; a homebrew smite could work there (although you could also just take the eldritch smite invocation for a non-concentration, non-bonus-action smite).
    
    1st level: sleep (theme connection: moonlight, evening, night); shield (theme connection: hunter)
    2nd level: invisibility (theme connection: sneaking up on prey), Mind Spike (theme connection: tracking, hunter `**`not sure about this one**)
    3rd level: Fly? Conjure Animals? Spirit Shroud? Blinding Smite? surprisingly few hunter/moon/night/sleep/forest associated 3rd level spells
    4th level: Fount of Moonlight (theme: moonlight, hunter; mechanically similar to spirit shroud - could drop this for spirit shroud at 3rd), Hallucinatory Terrain (theme: camouflage for the hunt)
    5th level: Banishing Smite (theme: hunter), Dream (theme: sleep - scrying is also potentially thematic, of course doesn't matter for delwath since you use both of those spells a lot)
    
    Some of the stuff on the current list (enthrall, tongues, ice storm) I can't figure out what the rationale was. 
    
    Open to suggestions especially for 3rd and possibly something better than Mind Spike for 2nd. Or something else for 4th to replace Fount of Moonlight, and then would be easy to add Spirit Shroud to 3rd.
[2024-09-20 10:53 AM] rsulfuratus: recalling that I think we had decided the flavor of the subclass was "Meswati" not just Yezali, rethinking spells a bit:
    
    level 1: shield (yezali); sleep (midri, hibernation)
    level 2: invisibility (yezali, tracking/sneaking up on prey); alter self or spider climb or ?? (k'onisati, transformation)
    level 3: ??? (yezali - maybe spirit shroud if replace 4th level yezali option), tongues (taraka, communication/stories)
    level 4: fount of moonlight (yezali), ice storm (yalik'i)
    level 5: banishing smite (yezali), scrying (nisir)
    
    possible alternative spells for each tanshi:
    yalik'i: detect thoughts (2nd - the "listen everywhere" and "clear thoughts" vibes), calm emotions (2nd - also "clear thoughts" theme), rime's binding ice (2nd), cone of cold (5th), armor of agathys (1st)
    k'onisati: polymorph (4th, transformation), giant insect (4th, `*`although the new version of this spell has some broken interactions), fly (3rd, insect/transformation), longstrider (1st), jump (1st)
    nisir: arcane eye (4th), see invisibility (2nd)
    
    tongues seems obvious for taraka
    for yezali lots of alternatives even avoiding smites 
    
    happy to take your suggestions just wasn't sure why we picked some of the old spells, and kind of feel like additional smites beyond banishing are kind of unneeded (another concentration option probably rarely gets used; blinding could be a 3rd level non-concentration option although if you have a spare invocation eldritch smite is much better since it doesn't take a bonus action and you can stack it with banishing smite)
[2024-09-20 12:31 PM] Deciusmus: The current structure has a Yezali themed spell each level, plus a 2nd one from a different tanshi.
    
    So that comes out as:
    
    1st Level: Shield (Yezali) / Sleep (Midri, hiberation)
    2nd Level: Shining Smite (Yezali) / Enthrall (K'onisati / shimmering/distraction of butterflies)
    3rd Level: Blinding Smite / Tongues (taraka/stories)
    4th Level: Shadow of Moil / Ice Storm (yaliki)
    5th Level: Banishing Smite / SCryhing (Nisir)
[2024-09-20 12:31 PM] Deciusmus: I actually like all 5 of the non-Yezali ones and don't see any reason to change them
[2024-09-20 12:32 PM] Deciusmus: I am planning on taking alter self at will as an invocation, so having it as a spell is very meh. Spider climb is fine-ish, but I actually used Enthrall at least once in game, so I'd rather not arbirtarily take it away
[2024-09-20 12:34 PM] Deciusmus: For the Yezali spells on the other hand, happy to move away from "all smites" if you are feeling like they should be more restricted.
[2024-09-20 12:38 PM] Deciusmus: Happy to swap Fount of Moonlight for Spirit Shroud, Fount of Moonlight is better for sure than Shadow of Moil themeatically, and functionally close enough toSpirit shroud that it doesn't matter
[2024-09-20 01:23 PM] Deciusmus: Also have no particular attachment to Blinding Smite; although a 3rd level Yezali spell is not obvious to me... some ideas:
    Conjure Animals seems like a good fit. Other ideas:
    Haste (kinda powerful)
    A reskinned Hunger of Hadar (to be something like attacking vines or beasts?)
    Lighting Arrow is an interesting one (although Ranger-only, maybe you are trying to avoid that)
    Nondetection (i.e. hiding vibe). Maybe overly useful? I would cast it all the time.
    
    Alternatively, go with Spirit Shroud for 3rd and then 4th Yezali... ideas:
    
    Conjure Woodland Creature (maybe with a type other than fey?)
    Dominate Beast
    Faithful Hound (although I can't tell if it is meant to be able to follow you around or just sit in a single spot. less useful if it just sits somewhere)
    Freedom of Movement
[2024-09-20 01:24 PM] Deciusmus: On 2nd level, Shining Smite is, I believe, literally the only way the party has to deal with invisible foes. Kinda a shame to lose it, although Invisiblity is of course a very useful spell
[2024-09-20 01:47 PM] rsulfuratus: completely happy to leave all the non-yezali ones, if you are happy with them. had just forgotten the thematics we had worked out
[2024-09-20 01:48 PM] rsulfuratus: re: invisible, sickening radiance also prevents invisibility, no?
[2024-09-20 01:48 PM] Deciusmus: ah
[2024-09-20 01:48 PM] Deciusmus: yes of course
[2024-09-20 01:48 PM] Deciusmus: forgot that
[2024-09-20 01:48 PM] rsulfuratus: i think in fact you've relied on that feature at least a few times.
[2024-09-20 01:49 PM] Deciusmus: that's more delwath's style anyway
[2024-09-20 01:50 PM] rsulfuratus: i thought about conjure animals but as an area effect concentration i wasn't sure if you would likely ever cast it over sickening radiance so not sure if it would feel kind of wasted
[2024-09-20 01:51 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess the advantage of Conjure Animals is you can move it around when you move
[2024-09-20 01:54 PM] rsulfuratus: the most thematic seems to me either:
    shield / invisibility / conjure animals / fount of moonlight / banishing smite
    shield / invisibility / spirit shroud / dominate beast/ banishing smite
[2024-09-20 02:09 PM] rsulfuratus: meswati patron and tanshi champion should work now on the 2024 warlock if you want to mess around. went with conjure animals + fount of moonlight but can change.
[2024-09-20 02:09 PM] rsulfuratus: https://www.dndbeyond.com/subclasses/2219442-meswati-patron
[2024-09-20 02:09 PM] rsulfuratus: https://www.dndbeyond.com/subclasses/2217955-tanshi-champion
[2024-09-20 02:10 PM] rsulfuratus: elves also work so should be set if you want to rebuild delwath
[2024-09-20 02:10 PM] rsulfuratus: let me know if there are any issues you find (besides taking old invocations, which will need some kind of workaround for)
[2024-09-20 02:13 PM] rsulfuratus: the sorcerer bonus spells are drop downs in the character creator - default would be sanctuary and lesser restoration at 3rd. i think by the rules you could have 2 additional cleric spells besides those two.
[2024-09-20 03:56 PM] Deciusmus: Am I supposed to have 2 Elven Rituals?
[2024-09-20 04:03 PM] rsulfuratus: Yes
[2024-09-20 04:03 PM] Deciusmus: D&D Beyond is really bad.
[2024-09-20 04:03 PM] Deciusmus: If you don't pick one of the "standard" backgrounds there is no way to add ability scores or origin feat
[2024-09-20 04:04 PM] Deciusmus: The Origin Feats list is honestly a bit weak as well
[2024-09-20 04:07 PM] rsulfuratus: should be a  Custom 2024 Background option
[2024-09-20 04:08 PM] rsulfuratus: then you pick ability scores on the Ability Score page
[2024-09-20 04:08 PM] Deciusmus: ah, I didn't look down to homebrew
[2024-09-20 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: Can I take the following origin feat:
    
    Quartermaster
    
    You gain proficiency with Cook's Tools and Tinker's Tools (or maybe just Cook's Tools).
    
    Nourishing Meal. As you finish a Short or Long Rest, provided you have access to food or water, you prepare a nourishing meal and give Heroic Inspiration to allies who partake of the food. The number of allies you can affect in this way equals your Proficiency Bonus
[2024-09-20 04:12 PM] Deciusmus: It's just Musician but reflavored to make sense for Delwath
[2024-09-20 04:12 PM] rsulfuratus: that's fine. i think just cook's tools though
[2024-09-20 04:23 PM] rsulfuratus: this should work: https://www.dndbeyond.com/feats/1811993-camp-cook
[2024-09-20 04:24 PM] rsulfuratus: this might also work: https://www.dndbeyond.com/backgrounds/414186-quartermaster
[2024-09-20 04:25 PM] Deciusmus: background works; doesn't let me pick stats though
[2024-09-20 04:25 PM] Deciusmus: have to manually add +s on the ability page
[2024-09-20 04:27 PM] rsulfuratus: ah i know why. i can fix that easily, i just need to add it as an option to the homebrew species.
[2024-09-20 04:27 PM] rsulfuratus: if you use a homebrew background + an official species you get the ASI choice on the abilities page, but it is because it is secretly coded in the species logic
[2024-09-20 04:30 PM] Deciusmus: I assume if I'm tinkering I should go with Warlock 12 rather than Warlock 11
[2024-09-20 04:30 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2024-09-20 04:32 PM] Deciusmus: wow sorcerers get a lot more spells
[2024-09-20 04:32 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2024-09-20 04:46 PM] rsulfuratus: i think i fixed the elf ASI, although there are a few formatting quirks i haven't figured out yet
[2024-09-20 04:49 PM] Deciusmus: so I net out with 4 spells to pick
[2024-09-20 04:53 PM] Deciusmus: https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/132791790
[2024-09-20 04:57 PM] Deciusmus: I swapped Elementalism for Green Flame Blade and Sorcerous Burst for Booming Blade
[2024-09-20 05:00 PM] Deciusmus: Invocations are a bit broken as I can't take the 2014 ones  - Ghostly Gaze in particular. Are you home brewing a better Eyes of the Rune Keeper?
[2024-09-20 05:01 PM] rsulfuratus: i don't think there is a straightforward way to homebrew invocations in D&D Beyond, and haven't thought about this much yet
[2024-09-20 05:01 PM] Deciusmus: The easiest way to do it is probably just leave the invocation blank and homebrew a feat
[2024-09-20 05:01 PM] Deciusmus: and then add a custom feat
[2024-09-20 05:01 PM] rsulfuratus: ah yeah that probably works fine. does the eldritch adept feat let you take old invocations?
[2024-09-20 05:01 PM] Deciusmus: yes, I think so
[2024-09-20 05:02 PM] Deciusmus: sort of
[2024-09-20 05:03 PM] Deciusmus: it does let you take the old ones, but it doesn't realize Delwath is a "warlock" so it doesn't let you pick the ones that had pre-requisites
[2024-09-20 05:03 PM] Deciusmus: so I can't actually pick Ghostly Gaze
[2024-09-20 05:03 PM] Deciusmus: can pick Eyes of the Rune Keeper
[2024-09-20 05:03 PM] Deciusmus: also can't add it more than once
[2024-09-20 05:04 PM] Deciusmus: so it is of limited use
[2024-09-20 05:04 PM] rsulfuratus: the not repeatable would be easy to fix by just cloning the feat as a homebrew feat with a different name but the prerequistes are probably hard coded
[2024-09-20 05:13 PM] Deciusmus: Right. So basically I have a new Delwath but still need:
    (a) to pick a handful of spells that ended up as new spells, either from invocations (Alter Self), new patron spells (Invisibility, Fount of Moonlight) or just sorcerers getting more spells
    (b) figure out invocations. Definitely taking Alter Self at will. Keeping Pact of Blade + the 2 extra attack ones and Ghostly Gaze. Dropping Eldritch Mind as I took War Caster instead. 
    
    That leaves 3 remaining slots.
    
    `**`Slot 1: Eye of Rune Keeper.**
     But I really think you should home brew it to be something better because the Elven Ritual feat gives me Comprehend Languages with a 3 hour duration and a 1 minute ritual, so pretty easy to just constantly cast it. 
    
    I am happy to pay a plot tax and keep it, but it would really make more sense to drop Eye of the Rune Keeper for something better and get by on the elven comprehend from a game mechanics standpoint, esp because none of the other elven ritual spells feel that sensible (mage armor silly, alarm silly given I have it already, and the animal vibe doesn't feel quite right for delwath)
[2024-09-20 05:15 PM] Deciusmus: `**`Slot 2: Improved Pact Weapon or ??**
    Improved Pact Weapon is not that useful as it functionally just gives a +1. That isn't nothing, but might not be worth a slot. Eldritch Smite for example might be better.
[2024-09-20 05:16 PM] Deciusmus: Or Life Drinker, although the vibe is a bit eh
[2024-09-20 05:17 PM] rsulfuratus: I kind of was thinking Eldritch Smite fulfills the desire for a non-concentration smite when designing the patron spell list, which only has banishing. so i think if you do want the non-concentration smite option then you should take Eldritch Smite
[2024-09-20 05:18 PM] rsulfuratus: definitely the vibe on Eldritch Smite feels more Delwath-y than lifedrinker
[2024-09-20 05:18 PM] Deciusmus: Then for Slot 3, something random and not weapon related for sure. Probably one of
    * Devil's Sight
    * Ascendant Step (levitate at will)
    * Visions of Distant Realms
[2024-09-20 05:19 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, that makes sense. Am leaning towards Edritch Smite not Imporved Pact or Lifedrinker
[2024-09-20 05:19 PM] rsulfuratus: the other option is Pact of the Tome + Gift of the Protectors
[2024-09-20 05:20 PM] rsulfuratus: Tome by itself is a bit meh. But Death Ward 1/day on 5 people is rather good
[2024-09-20 05:21 PM] Deciusmus: true. the tome doesn't have quite the right vibe, but reskinned as some kind of tanish ritual item it works well actually
[2024-09-20 05:21 PM] Deciusmus: but Delwath is very full up on cantrips
[2024-09-20 05:22 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, you really have little need of more cantrips. so you are basically paying 2 invocation slots for the gift of the protectors
[2024-09-20 05:23 PM] Deciusmus: I mean Unseen Servant and Tensors Floating Disk could be fun ritual spells
[2024-09-20 05:24 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that I am kind of not interested in trying to homebrew an eyes of the runekeeper alternative, but also don't think there is any reason you need to pay a story tax to keep it. you can always just imagine you swapped it out at the current level up
[2024-09-20 05:25 PM] rsulfuratus: that said the downside to comprehend languages is you can't read writing in the mirror. not sure if that has ever come up. i think wellby lipreading comes up more
[2024-09-20 05:26 PM] Deciusmus: It probably has a few times, I can't remember
[2024-09-20 05:28 PM] Deciusmus: At some level, I don't actually have a ton of invocations I want
[2024-09-20 05:28 PM] rsulfuratus: so, i think what i'll do is homebrew a ghostly gaze feat when i get a chance, and then if you decide to keep eyes of runekeeper you can do it via the eldritch adept feat. 
    
    if you decide to take improved pact weapon instead of eldritch smite i can homebrew that too
    
    i think anything else should be fine to just pick
[2024-09-20 05:32 PM] Deciusmus: I do feel like the eyes of the rune keeper thing is annoying because ultimately, from a game perspective, having writing come up in the mirror that we can't read is going to feel crappy. But mechanically you are effectively giving me comprehend language for free
[2024-09-20 05:33 PM] Deciusmus: via the elven thing
[2024-09-20 05:33 PM] Deciusmus: So basically, eyes of the rune keeper is effectively the "you can use comprehend languages on writing you can't touch"
[2024-09-20 05:34 PM] Deciusmus: which is a pretty crappy invocation. but I'm hesistant to drop it, because if I do, and writing comes up in the mirror or something, I'm going to be annoyed
[2024-09-20 05:41 PM] rsulfuratus: i do get that, although on the other hand you are getting a ton of new stuff already. let me think about it a bit
[2024-09-20 09:32 PM] Deciusmus: Nathaniel just texted me to ask who umbraeth is
[2024-09-20 09:32 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah we just finished a session and they met a naiad who mentioned umbreath
[2024-09-20 09:33 PM] rsulfuratus: he is really leaning into the secret fey connectin of the de brune family
[2024-09-20 09:34 PM] Deciusmus: I told him Umbraeth was better known as the Gloomshaper and is dangerous and too stay away.  And it wasn't safe to talk. And to ask the Squire of the Whispering Wind about Umbraeth
[2024-09-20 09:34 PM] rsulfuratus: he's sitting next to me
[2024-09-20 09:34 PM] Deciusmus: ah
[2024-09-20 09:35 PM] Deciusmus: what did the naiad tell them about umbraeth
[2024-09-20 09:35 PM] rsulfuratus: just that his duskhounds sometimes ride through the darkwood, and to be careful
[2024-09-20 09:35 PM] rsulfuratus: I'm looking.... (nathaniel)
[2024-09-20 09:36 PM] Deciusmus: ooh, I stated up a duskhound. they are nasty.
[2024-09-20 09:36 PM] Deciusmus: The game I DM for is about to fight one
[2024-09-20 09:36 PM] Deciusmus: But you gotta be 6-7th level to take them on, probably
[2024-09-20 09:36 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah they aren't going to the darkwood anytime soon
[2024-09-20 09:36 PM] rsulfuratus: they just got to level 3
[2024-09-20 09:37 PM] Deciusmus: I should move some of my bestiary to a shared folder
[2024-09-20 09:37 PM] Deciusmus: I stat stuff up in obisidian
[2024-09-20 09:41 PM] Deciusmus: BTW I've been trying to clean up some status tags... Trying to use "blankslate" more for stuff that just needs pure invention rather than WIP, unless I actually have specific ideas about a page

