# Discord DM – 2024-07-13

[2024-07-13 11:46 AM] Deciusmus: I’m working on one more update to languages. Basic idea:
    - push the exotic races and extra planar to own pages so I don’t have to publish them for my players and we can leave them less canon
    - rewrote Chardon to leave the northern west coast ambiguous
[2024-07-13 11:48 AM] Deciusmus: I’m also simplifying Northros to leave the Vargardli in a comment and position Mawaran / Old Zimkovan / Deno’qai more as examples of a wide undefined set
[2024-07-13 11:48 AM] rsulfuratus: I'm in the process of updating the West Coast history in the worldbuilding/background with a bit more thinking
[2024-07-13 11:49 AM] Deciusmus: The biggest question for me that’s outstanding before finalizing some version of the languages doc is Vosic/Vostok language
[2024-07-13 11:50 AM] rsulfuratus: in my west coast thinking I am feeling like there is, potentially a missing cultural group. the issue is that a lot of the stuff that's happened north of charrdon is kind of dubiously canonical - all from high school campaign and my game with Isaac
[2024-07-13 11:50 AM] rsulfuratus: but I think this impinges on the Vos a bit as well, who are fairly unsatisfyingly developed IMO
[2024-07-13 11:51 AM] Deciusmus: We structured the Hkar migrations to make it quite easy to add a “second dunmari” group
[2024-07-13 11:51 AM] rsulfuratus: the missing cultural group is the post-Drankor, pre-Great War northern kingdoms that were never conquered by Drankor
[2024-07-13 11:51 AM] Deciusmus: Ie a migration that left say just before the downfall
[2024-07-13 11:51 AM] rsulfuratus: the vibe from high school was kind of medieval german, these were like Volkrad and related
[2024-07-13 11:52 AM] rsulfuratus: the main distinction is I don't think it is quite right to have only the northerner / Deno'qai and the Drankorian strands in the north
[2024-07-13 11:52 AM] rsulfuratus: the two options that I've thought of are (a) another Dunmari-style migration, pre-Downfall, and (b) a western migration of the easterners/mariners that stretches across the mountains
[2024-07-13 11:53 AM] Deciusmus: Right. It would make perfect sense that there was a late migration from Hkar, worshipping a form of Mos Numena, and speaking Germanic
[2024-07-13 11:53 AM] Deciusmus: I don’t like the mariners making it so far west
[2024-07-13 11:56 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah, okay, I wasn't sure about the mariners
[2024-07-13 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus: so then the question is about mirgrations east. the Zimka and the Vargald are definitely northerners and related to the deno'qai
[2024-07-13 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus: the Skaer are definitely mariner
[2024-07-13 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus: but I'm actually not entirely sure about the Vos
[2024-07-13 11:58 AM] Deciusmus: My headcannon which does not need to be actual canon is something like...
    
    (a) a broad group of Northerns, worshipping the kestavo gods and speaking a northros language ("old Zimkovan" currently) come over the mountains and spread in a broad swath between the Sentinels and the Svinjo mountains, but staying in the land of rivers and hills, not heading down toward the coast
    (b) the Skaer come from the east, with a totally different culture, and settle along the coasts
[2024-07-13 11:59 AM] rsulfuratus: yes, that I agree with
[2024-07-13 11:59 AM] rsulfuratus: but I am a bit unsatisfied with the Vos as just a Skaer/Northern mix
[2024-07-13 12:04 PM] Deciusmus: Right, I agree. I think currently, there are probably at least 5 cultural traditions:
    
    (a) the "traditional/old" Zimka who still speak the original Zimkovan language and still, today, worship kestavo
    (b) the "new/highlander" Zimka (Ardlas/Lavnoch/Breva) who have intermarried and intermixed with Sembara much more heavily, and speak their own (probably Eastros) languages and worship Mos Numena. Perhaps culturally similar to Tollen
    (c)  the Skaer, who speak their own Eastros derived language, and worship their own god
    (d) the Tyrwinghans, who speak their own language somtimes (unclear derivation) but are quite Sembaran in some ways and worship Mos Numena
    (e) the Vos, who are somewhat poorly defined
[2024-07-13 12:04 PM] Deciusmus: actually, plus
    (f) the Tollenders, who speak their own language, closely related to Sembaran, and who worship Mos Numena
[2024-07-13 12:04 PM] Deciusmus: then of course the Sembarans, Isinguese, etc
[2024-07-13 12:06 PM] Deciusmus: The Tollender history is quite well defined, as effectively emerging from a schism within the broader Skaer culture between those who became heavily Drankorian influenced vs those who didn't
[2024-07-13 12:07 PM] rsulfuratus: I'm not sure that is quite right. I've never thought of the people of Tollen as having a particularly close cultural or linguistic connection to the Skaer
[2024-07-13 12:08 PM] rsulfuratus: that feels like a fairly significant retcon?
[2024-07-13 12:08 PM] Deciusmus: I guess I maybe misread your Tollen history
[2024-07-13 12:09 PM] Deciusmus: But I thought it was a Skaer city post Downfall?
[2024-07-13 12:09 PM] Deciusmus: from the Tollen page:
    
    By the 4200s, the Skaer have established themselves as the dominant mariner culture in the [[Western Green Sea]], and resettle and rebuild Tollen. Over the next 300 years, the Skaer grow stronger, spreading along the coast as far south as the mouth of the [[Semb]], raiding upriver for timber and impressed sailors to row their great ships, and seeking converts for their religion. Tollen develops as a major trade center for the emerging Skaer empire, and begins to grow again.
[2024-07-13 12:09 PM] rsulfuratus: so the idea was something more analagous to london. founded by Skaer, but then they left
[2024-07-13 12:10 PM] rsulfuratus: basically when drankor shows up the skaer give up tollen
[2024-07-13 12:10 PM] Deciusmus: Ok, I see. This sentence is doing a lot of work:
    
    However, the Skaer are forbidden from bringing ships up the [[Volta]], and Tollen falls outside their sway and comes under the influence of [[Drankorian Empire|Drankor]].
[2024-07-13 12:10 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah the tollen page needs some cleanup
[2024-07-13 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: I wasn't trying to retcon, just going from the Tollen page
[2024-07-13 12:12 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe Tollish should be a more Drankorian-derived language than I had it, i.e. not Eastros
[2024-07-13 12:14 PM] Deciusmus: Anyway, ignoring that all for a minute, I still think the basic division of 7 cultural tradtions ("old Zimka", "new Zimka", Skaer, Tyrwinghan, Tollen, Vos, and Sembaran) is a good starting spot
[2024-07-13 12:14 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2024-07-13 12:14 PM] Deciusmus: Here's what I have at the beginning of Sembaran history:
    
    In the aftermath of [[The Downfall]] the land that will become [[Sembara]] is lightly populated. The [[Kestavo|kestavo-worshipping]] [[Zimkova|Zimka]] live in the foothills of the [[Sentinel Range]], and have spread amongst the highlands, and down the valleys of the great rivers: the [[Semb]], the [[Volta]], the [[Teft]], and the [[Wistel]]. Along the coast, [[Skaerhem|Skaer]] mariners raid, intermarry, and settle amongst the Zimka, and a Skaer-dominated mixed culture spreads from [[Tollen]] to the mouth of the [[Semb]]. The once mighty [[Lizardfolk|lizardfolk]] swamps have mostly disappeared, save for remnants: [[Ozabal]], at the mouth of the [[Wistel]] and [[Latazaro]], in the east, where a thriving lizardfolk communities remain. South of the Wistel is the mixed community of humans, clustered along the coast, united by the their shared allegiance to the [[Archfey Ethlenn]], but otherwise the southern lands are largely empty of humans.
[2024-07-13 12:15 PM] Deciusmus: Which I think still stands
[2024-07-13 12:15 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, that seems right
[2024-07-13 12:16 PM] Deciusmus: The "Skaer dominated" mixed culture, becomes the substrate for 3 cultures, I think: Sembaran, "new Zimka" ,and Tollen
[2024-07-13 12:16 PM] Deciusmus: But all three are heavily influenced by Drankor
[2024-07-13 12:17 PM] Deciusmus: But I actually think the Vos are both more complex that just "the Vos" and something else...
[2024-07-13 12:20 PM] Deciusmus: So you basically have...
    
    "Old Tollish" culture, which is the Skaer dominated coastal culture, speaking an Eastros language. 
    Zimka, up in the mountains
    Trywinghans, in Tyrwinghan
    
    Then when Drankor comes along, the Skaer part of the Skaer dominated flees. And Drankor splits the Old Tollish culture into 3:
    
    * Sembara, settled by Drankor
    * "New Zimka", in the highlands, separated and evolving separately from the original Old Tollish, but culturally resistent to Drankorian influence
    * Tollen, along the Volta and parts of the coast, culturally open to Drankor, but independent
[2024-07-13 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: that suggests that Tollish is probably a Drankorian language, very similar to Sembaran. Whereas Old Tollish is a potentially lost Eastros language, but is the lingusitic ancestor of "new Zimka"
[2024-07-13 12:23 PM] rsulfuratus: here is a possible tweak
[2024-07-13 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: so, I think the idea pre-Drankor is that you have the martime Skaer empire, which is very maritime, and goes upriver a bit but basically does not settle inland
[2024-07-13 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: so there is already a growing split among the Skaer, between the settlers and the sailors
[2024-07-13 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: the old mariner religion was probably a pantheonic one, with more than a single god. the idea behind the Skaer is that only Kaikkea survived
[2024-07-13 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: but pre-Drankor there could already be some religious splits happening
[2024-07-13 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: we've already vaguely established the mariner religion as for some reason more prone to schisms and evolution than Mos Numena, which is largely unchanged (in divinity, if not in human practice) since Hkar itself
[2024-07-13 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: so leaning into that, you have the mariner pantheon fragmenting a bit
[2024-07-13 12:28 PM] rsulfuratus: that gives you three distinct religious traditions in post-Downfall, pre-Drankor Sembara:
    - the Skaer, worshipping Kaikkea, who are powerful maritime empire but don't settle away from the coast, speaking an Eastros language
    - the Zimka, in the highlands, speaking a Nortros language, worshipping the Kestavo, and drifting down river valleys
    - the Tollish, worshipping the non-Kaikkea parts of the old mariner pantheon, speaking an Eastros language, but diverging culturally from the Skaer pretty quickly
[2024-07-13 12:29 PM] rsulfuratus: (this is basically what you wrote but adding the religious twist)
[2024-07-13 12:29 PM] rsulfuratus: Then, when Drankor comes, the Tollish gods just die out.
[2024-07-13 12:29 PM] rsulfuratus: and the Skaer retreat
[2024-07-13 12:30 PM] rsulfuratus: the Drankorian "conquest" of Sembara doesn't really involve wars, so perhaps the Tollish assimalte pretty quickly. maybe there is a magical thing, the Drankorians ride in to save them from a dragon or whatever
[2024-07-13 12:31 PM] rsulfuratus: theorectically, this could leave Tyrwingha as the remnant of the old Tollish culture
[2024-07-13 12:32 PM] Deciusmus: Right... although the interventionist trend in Sembaran worship was meant to come from the kestavo tradition. So I'm not 100% about the religious twist. But largely seems sensible
[2024-07-13 12:32 PM] rsulfuratus: ah, right, so maybe it is better if the Tollish are kestavan
[2024-07-13 12:32 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe for some reason the mariner gods are dying already. something about the downfall kills them, only kaikkea survives
[2024-07-13 12:33 PM] rsulfuratus: or the downfall sickens them and over the next 100 years all the mariner gods but Kaikkea stop responding to prayers
[2024-07-13 12:34 PM] Deciusmus: Sure, that could work. I kinda want to leave who exactly the Tyrwinghans are slightly undefined because it could become relevant to my game. But I think the general idea of the Skaer/Zimka/"Tollish" split works well
[2024-07-13 12:34 PM] rsulfuratus: sure, they don't need to be the ancestors of the Tyrwinghans
[2024-07-13 12:34 PM] Deciusmus: Exactly whether the Tyrwinghans are Tollish or not probably doesnt matter, although I like the idea that Tyrwinghan language is written with the Eastros alphabet
[2024-07-13 12:35 PM] Deciusmus: I also like the "new Zimka" (i.e. Sembaran highland kingdoms) to be remenant of the old Tollish culture, speaking an Eastros ather than Northos language (as I've used Slavic pretty heavily in naming)
[2024-07-13 12:36 PM] rsulfuratus: from a linguistic point of view, I kind of think that perhaps Sembaran and Tollish should be kind of analagous to what might have happened to english if the norman conquest involved a dramatically bigger population shift
[2024-07-13 12:36 PM] Deciusmus: Right, that was my idea
[2024-07-13 12:37 PM] rsulfuratus: so it is a bit hard to classify. uses the drankorian alphabet, but is it really an eastros language or a drankorian language? it is kind of a fusion
[2024-07-13 12:37 PM] Deciusmus: Sembaran probably originated as a creole language between Old Tollish and Drankorian
[2024-07-13 12:38 PM] Deciusmus: maybe there shouldn't be  aseparate Tollish language at all... and Sembaran should be pretty distinct from Isinguese/Cymean
[2024-07-13 12:38 PM] rsulfuratus: so that is the direction i was going
[2024-07-13 12:38 PM] Deciusmus: I've actually played Sembaran in my naming as a very random mix of English and French
[2024-07-13 12:39 PM] rsulfuratus: I think a Tollish dialect makes sense, but kind of like catalan vs spanish. tollish has a bit more eastros loan words, sembaran a bit more drankorian, but they are mutually intelligeble and closely related
[2024-07-13 12:42 PM] Deciusmus: So you could imagine something like:
    
    Old Tollish, the language of the original Tollish culture that existed immediately post Downfall. No longer spoken, but does survive as a scholarly language in Tollen. Eastros/Eastros alphabet.
    
    New Zimkovan, derived form Old Tollish, but adopted the Drankorian alphabet. New name for what we used to call Highlander. Eastros language. 
    
    Sembaran. A creole that developed as a mix between Drankorian and Old Tollish. Fairly distinct from the rest of the Drankorian languages. English/French. Drankorian alphabet.
    
    Tollish. Closely related to Sembaran and but with slightly more Eastros loan words and flavor.
[2024-07-13 12:42 PM] Deciusmus: And then Tyrwinghan is somewhat undefined, but was clearly influenced in alphabet at least by Old Tollish.
[2024-07-13 12:43 PM] rsulfuratus: right, plus Insinguese and Cymean which are much more proper Drankorian languages, and while possibly mutually intelligeble are probably not so with Sembaran
[2024-07-13 12:43 PM] Deciusmus: Skaer & Old Zimkovan are their own things (Eastros/Northros).
    And Isinguese and Cymean as you say - mutually understandable but not with Sembarans.
[2024-07-13 12:44 PM] Deciusmus: Culturally it leaves Vostok somewhat ill defined.
[2024-07-13 12:44 PM] rsulfuratus: (although, for a game that doesn't want to consider languages too much, you could mechanically decide that all the "Eastern Drankorian" languages fall into a single mechanical language)
[2024-07-13 12:44 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah. vostok does not feel like it is either Old Tollish or Skaer or Zimkovan
[2024-07-13 12:44 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, I think Vostok is something else. Originally northern
[2024-07-13 12:45 PM] Deciusmus: But not really part of the Old Tollish cultural spread.
[2024-07-13 12:45 PM] rsulfuratus: or, potentially, a migration of the western non-northern, non-Drankor culture
[2024-07-13 12:45 PM] Deciusmus: Right, although it is weirdly placed for that. Although lots of reasons that a new culture could have ended up there
[2024-07-13 12:46 PM] rsulfuratus: `I think that I would leave Vosic for now as a bit of an orphan language, not clearly part of any language family, similar to Tyrwinghan
[2024-07-13 12:47 PM] Deciusmus: Sure. I actually think there could be pretty clearly 2 Vosic languages
[2024-07-13 12:47 PM] Deciusmus: Aren't lots of the coast of eastern Vostok heavily Skaer influenced?
[2024-07-13 12:48 PM] Deciusmus: Should there be a "Coastal Vosic" that is clearly similar to Skaer? Or is that overselling the connection?
[2024-07-13 12:51 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, there are really potentially as many as four vos cultural threads, perhaps even more:
    - a coastal vos culture that has a long association with the skaer, although not sharing a religion. 
    - the "lakes and rivers" vos culture that is very undefined but largely not skaer influenced and probably not northern either
    - the kind of tollen hills culture, imediately east of tollen and near the straights of cymea, that is a lowland / coastal culture but one that is more distinct from the skaer
    - potentially a northerner / zimka culture in the upper volta valley
[2024-07-13 12:51 PM] Deciusmus: The current Vostok doc says:
    
    Most of the population lives in the southern part of Vostok, called Voslaag ("home of the lowlanders"; often called South Vostok or South Vosland in [[Sembara]]), within a hundred miles of the coast, and along the lower [[Kem]] river valley. This is a region of few cities, few roads, and difficult travel, with lots of uninhabited land even within the most organized territories of major clans and chiefs. Boats, both on the rivers and the coastal [[Green Sea]], are crucial to trade, travel, and communication throughout Voslaag. 
    
    [[Cymea]] and [[Tollen]], with their strong naval traditions, have often looked to Voslaag for tribute and resources, whether extracted by violence or as part of recognition of an outside overlord. But these relationships - beyond some annual tribute (oftentimes labor, such as sailors for the navy) and a perhaps a personal relationship between a Vos and Cymean or [[Tollen]] leader - have left little impact on the internal culture and politics of Vostok. 
    
    Few people live in the forests and hills of the northern plateaus, the region called Voskald ("homeland of the people of the cold"; often referred to as North Vostok or North Vosland in Sembara). Much more than the people of Voslaag, the Voskalders are closely connected by culture and shared history with the [[Zimkova]], especially the traditionalists in the north.
[2024-07-13 12:52 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah so this is the basic inland / coastal distinction
[2024-07-13 12:52 PM] Deciusmus: I think that is good to keep as canon
[2024-07-13 12:52 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2024-07-13 12:52 PM] Deciusmus: But that doesn't mean the northern vostok are just one group
[2024-07-13 12:52 PM] rsulfuratus: but there might be multiple distinct cultural groups within each category
[2024-07-13 12:52 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2024-07-13 12:53 PM] rsulfuratus: for the coastal people, the Voslaag, I think there are reasonably a Skaer-influenced and a Skaer-independent group, but that might not involve different languages
[2024-07-13 12:54 PM] rsulfuratus: for now I don't think this needs to be developed too much beyond what is in the Vostok doc
[2024-07-13 12:55 PM] Deciusmus: Right so from a linguistic standpoint, there are three ways to write this:
    
    (a) just leave Vosic out of the languages doc entirely, i.e. put some notes in `%%` but don't publish it for my players. They won't care
    (b) canonically define at least 2 Vos languages (Southern Vosic and Northern Vosic perhaps with better names) Souther = Eastros, Northern = Nrothros
    (c) defined Vosic as "a collection of languages spoken in the Vostok region with a range of influences"
[2024-07-13 12:55 PM] Deciusmus: with a note that we might decide to split it
[2024-07-13 12:56 PM] rsulfuratus: I'd probably just leave one Vosic language, with the note that this might not be all there is, and without much detail
[2024-07-13 12:56 PM] rsulfuratus: so basically option (c)
[2024-07-13 12:57 PM] Deciusmus: right ok.
[2024-07-13 01:00 PM] Deciusmus: so we are about to go get lunch but what I'm going to try to write up this afternoon or evening is
    
    (a) an upate to the language doc that covers this stuff.  
    Summary:
    1. Add Old Tollish/Tollish/Old Zimka/New Zimka/Tyrwinghan as discssed here
    2. Make Sembaran a creole/not same as Drankorian as discussed here
    3. Vague-ify Vosic and move it to the Miscellaneous languages section
    4. Move most exotic and extra planer to separate page to allow for vagueness
    
    (b) an update my  Synthesis of Humanity in Greater Sembara doc in background
    1. Introduces and clarifies the key idea here of Zimka/Tollish/Skaer and the evolution
    2. Mentions the problem of Vostok and some of the non-canonical ideas here
[2024-07-13 01:00 PM] Deciusmus: I'll push both and tag status/tim. My goal is to publish the language doc for Kiya at least (she wants details on what languages and alphabets Celyn knows) by the end of the weekend or early next week
[2024-07-13 06:15 PM] Deciusmus: Final language page per the above is pushed

