# Discord DM – 2024-09-11

[2024-09-11 02:09 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure if you have thought much or care much about mechanical details of taelgar species, but i've been trying to rework at least the five core firstborn species a little to better capture mechanically the "unique firstborn magic" of each species. feeling pretty good about elves (ritual magic), halflings (telepathy/ancestral memory); have good ideas for lizardfolk (various prophecy/dreamworld things). stoneborn are a little unsettled because the lore is not totally clear but thinking around body transformation/resilience, things that have a vibe of like 'anime monk stuff' a little bit (this is how they are basically written now). 
    
    dwarves are the biggest challenge. the current runic magic is, I feel, too complicated and a bit overworked (a species really doesn't need 10 options to pick from), and mechanically feel like a pretty mixed bag. 
    
    the lore, however, i think is pretty clear, it just doesn't translate well mechanically. i have two ideas neither of which i love:
    
    (1) make dwarven rune magic explicitly about creating an item, kind of like artificer infusions. i kind of tried to write it this way once but no one who has played a dwarf seems too interested in engaging with this
    
    (2) make runes function kind of like origin feats, kind of modeled on feat chains from the giant sourcebook (Bigby's), which would give you kind of an alternate runic progression, but could be a lot of work to design
[2024-09-11 02:21 PM] Deciusmus: I like the basic vibe of inscribing a rune, but the current set of options is a bit complex
[2024-09-11 03:13 PM] Deciusmus: And the fact that each rune has its own set of rules and reset options makes it feel especially more complex
[2024-09-11 03:29 PM] Deciusmus: If I were trying to simplify, I think I'd 
    
    (a) keep the basic idea of a rune you inscribe
    (b) each rune would grant  one ability, approximately like a first level spell to the bearer, and the rune's magic always fades after it is used (some would in fact be 1st level spells, but some might be spell-like abilities)
    (c) at 3rd level, gain the ability to mirror the rune, so when you inscribe it you keep an echo of it, allowing both you and someone else to gain the ability
[2024-09-11 03:29 PM] Deciusmus: that's a starting point... maybe needs a different 3rd level option, and a 5th level option
[2024-09-11 03:32 PM] Deciusmus: And perhaps dwarves are then also missing a feature, i.e. if you compare to your new elf, we have
    
    Darkvision = darkvision
    Dwarven training = keen sense
    stonecunning ~= resilience of dream + trance
    
    But the rune magic above is about the same as the ritual magic of elves, so dwarves probably need something extra (esp as speed 25 feet is a penalty)
[2024-09-11 03:44 PM] rsulfuratus: okay, that is I think a useful perspective. i kind of like the style of a "firstborn gift" choice + a "firstborn magic" choice + basic species traits, so that might suggest revising dwarves to be:
    
    darkvision (I think perhaps buffed to 120 feet as the only underground playable species in taelgar)
    stonecunning
    some kind of baharazel gift (that might subsume dwarven training, and would include cantrip options which don't fit well in the runic magic idea)
    rune magic that is simplified and streamlined
[2024-09-11 03:47 PM] Deciusmus: Right that pattern works well in general, I think.
[2024-09-11 03:51 PM] Deciusmus: Gift of Azar's Valor: Advantage on saving throws against fright.
    Gift of Maganna's Radiance. You learn the Light cantrip.
    Gift of Tarbaka's Cunning. You gain proficiency in 3 tools
    Gift of Azar's Training. You gain proficiency in two martial weapons, or shields.
    
    Just ideas but they seem relatively easy to generate (2 per baharal is probably too many though)
[2024-09-11 03:53 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah I think one per Baharazel would make sense
[2024-09-11 03:53 PM] Deciusmus: Runes are a little bit harder as the set of good 1st level spells isn't massive they should probably mostly not be combat spells, and you already used a lot for elven magic and lots of overlap seems boring
[2024-09-11 03:55 PM] rsulfuratus: for runes it might be worth doing a little more inventing of non-spell effects
[2024-09-11 04:06 PM] Deciusmus: although some initial ideas, keeping to the existing runes:
    
    Rune of Defense: Protection from Good and Evil
    Rune of Delving: Find Traps
    Rune of Exploration: Longstrider
    Rune of Lore: Identify
    Rune of Valor: Heroism
[2024-09-11 04:08 PM] Deciusmus: Rune of Stone: A reskinned Locate Object that works on ore/stone/etc only ("Locate Stone or Ore")
[2024-09-11 04:09 PM] Deciusmus: Rune of Life:  Goodberry
[2024-09-11 04:10 PM] Deciusmus: Rune of Truth: A limited form of Zone of Truth?
[2024-09-11 04:11 PM] Deciusmus: This list doesn't have Aid or the Forge. Unseen Servant for something maybe? Purify Food and Drink?
[2024-09-11 04:12 PM] Deciusmus: Not committed to any of the above, but it doesn't seem that hard to come up with a decent list
[2024-09-11 04:15 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i think this is probably the right direction. am going to fiddle a bit but i think the design is probably something like:
    - Baharazel's Blessing (which is aimed to be roughly 1/2 as strong as an origin feat, so kind of on par with e.g. Firstborn's Gift + keen sense from elves)
    - Tremorsense, improved darkvision, 30 foot speed as "main basic features"
    - Rune magic which is designed to be a little weaker than Elven magic. probably something like one choice of spell or spell like effect, can use prof/2 times per day, but never learn a second effect
[2024-09-11 04:17 PM] rsulfuratus: `**`Bahrazel's Blessing.** Your innate connection to the Bahrazel provides you with a supernatural blessing. Choose one of the following options: 
    - `*`Tarbaka's Blessing of Craft.* You learn the Mending cantrip. In addition, you have an uncanny ability to understand raw materials and how to shape them. You gain proficiency in two Artisan's Tool of your choice. When you Craft items with your chosen Tool, you require only half the time and raw materials that would normally be required.
    - `*`Maganna's Blessing of Elements.* You learn two cantrips from among Light, Elementalism, Gust, Shape Water, Control Fire, and Mold Earth.
    - `*`Azar's Blessing of Strength.* Your Hit Point maximum increases by 1, and it increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level. 
    - `*`Oshkir's Blessing of Life.* You learn the Guidance and Spare the Dying cantrips. 
    - `*`Uzdan's Blessing of *
    - `*`Karthel's Blessing of *
    - `*`Fanrukel's Blessing of *
[2024-09-11 04:18 PM] Deciusmus: Is Maganna really related to elements? Does that fit the lore?
[2024-09-11 04:19 PM] rsulfuratus: not really but i kinda want an elemental option on there since Mold Earth has been so central to Seeker
[2024-09-11 04:19 PM] rsulfuratus: and Riswynn has Shape Water from her dwarf background
[2024-09-11 04:20 PM] rsulfuratus: but maybe that should be Karthel (runecrafter)?
[2024-09-11 04:21 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, that might work better
[2024-09-11 04:23 PM] rsulfuratus: - `*`Fanrukel's Blessing of Shaping.* You learn two cantrips from among Elementalism, Shape Water, Mold Earth, Gust, Control Flames, or Light.
[2024-09-11 04:26 PM] rsulfuratus: possibly adding Thaumatury as an option as well. It is most of the non-combat Transmutation cantrips, plus Light
[2024-09-11 04:27 PM] rsulfuratus: oops meant Karthel
[2024-09-11 04:28 PM] Deciusmus: Maganna's Blessing of Communication. You learn the Message cantrip, and in addition you gain proficiency in 3 additional languages.
[2024-09-11 04:28 PM] rsulfuratus: that's good
[2024-09-11 04:29 PM] Deciusmus: Izgil (the dwarf in my game) uses this ability not infrequently:
    
    When the bearer of the rune makes a ability check that uses the Arcana, History, or Religion skills (or related Knowledge competencies), and rolls a 9 or lower on the d20, they can activate this rune to treat the number rolled as a 10. Once this effect is activated, it cannot be used until the rune is inscribed again. The number of uses increases to two at 5th level and three at 11th level.
[2024-09-11 04:30 PM] Deciusmus: It is probably a better fit for a rune than a gift though, if I was trying to keep it
[2024-09-11 04:32 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah I think that could be the basis of a decent rune
[2024-09-11 04:33 PM] rsulfuratus: Eric also uses Seeker's sense ore a reasonable amount, which could also be a good rune
[2024-09-11 04:35 PM] Deciusmus: right; the real issue for Izgil is that he also uses Identify from his rune a fair bit, so hard to make an exact equivalent (i.e. because it might make sense to have 2 runes one for identify, one for a "ability check take 10" - but neither of those are a great fit for a gift, and I'm not sure if he'd want to trade)
[2024-09-11 04:35 PM] rsulfuratus: well if you did update to new rules, the solution would be to get Identify from your origin feat
[2024-09-11 04:35 PM] Deciusmus: you mean via magic initiate or whatever
[2024-09-11 04:35 PM] Deciusmus: yeah
[2024-09-11 04:35 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2024-09-11 04:36 PM] rsulfuratus: although actually I'm wondering if the knowledge thing might work as Fanrukel's Blessing of Lore
[2024-09-11 04:36 PM] Deciusmus: It feels maybe a little powerful to have an infinite set of uses
[2024-09-11 04:37 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah you'd either need to limit to one skill and lower the floor to 8, or give it limited uses i think
[2024-09-11 04:39 PM] rsulfuratus: although actually since Identify is a ritual spell, it is not unreasonable to have unlimited uses of that
[2024-09-11 04:39 PM] rsulfuratus: that might be a better Fanrukel's Blessing of Lore actually
[2024-09-11 04:40 PM] Deciusmus: That's true
[2024-09-11 04:41 PM] rsulfuratus: it is slightly duplicative of the vibe of elven ritual magic but i think reasonable in this case
[2024-09-11 04:41 PM] rsulfuratus: identify definitely is an dwarven-associated spell by vibes
[2024-09-11 04:42 PM] Deciusmus: I think one case where you have a ritual is fine here
[2024-09-11 08:15 PM] Deciusmus: If you are doing rules stuff would it make sense to push it in the “playing species” mechanics rather than only D&D beyond? Easier to read/edit that way
[2024-09-11 08:16 PM] rsulfuratus: just pushed. i don't have the finished species in obsidian (although could add them)
[2024-09-11 08:16 PM] rsulfuratus: Campaigns/Mechanics/Species of Taelgar.md
[2024-09-11 08:18 PM] Deciusmus: Don’t see it
[2024-09-11 08:18 PM] rsulfuratus: oops forgot to push
[2024-09-11 08:18 PM] rsulfuratus: done now
[2024-09-11 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: added halfling and elf, which are more or less done on d&d beyond as well

