# Discord DM – 2024-09-23

[2024-09-23 01:32 PM] Deciusmus: Is it fair to say that any place with status/stub and a ~ name is fair to fixup and set dm_notes/dm_plans to no?
[2024-09-23 01:35 PM] Deciusmus: Also, is it fair to set status/cleanup/internal rather than status/needswork/internal when there is not much made up, but some of it is on well-organized backlinks rather than the page itself?
[2024-09-23 01:41 PM] rsulfuratus: I think status/cleanup/internal is reasonable for notes where most information is available but only through backlinks, yes
[2024-09-23 01:43 PM] Deciusmus: For this, I guess with the exception of places that are not "clearly on the map"
[2024-09-23 01:44 PM] Deciusmus: (I have a few minutes while I eat lunch, and I'm trying to reduce the number of status/stub so when I add new pages with status/stub it is easier to find them)
[2024-09-23 01:45 PM] rsulfuratus: re: status/stubs, I'm not sure that is entirely correct? i guess the concept of dm_plans for places is a little nebulous. but lots of status/stub pages i do actually have notes. e.g. Emerald Coast, Northern Boreal Forest, North Chardon Coast, Great Desert, Eastern Islands
[2024-09-23 01:45 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess setting them to status/needswork/`<something>` and dm_notes: no might be fine and accomplish the same thing
[2024-09-23 01:46 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess my point is there are plenty of place stubs that are in the "can't be used without more info" category
[2024-09-23 01:46 PM] Deciusmus: that's kinda what I mean by "clearly on the map"
[2024-09-23 01:47 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess I'm a little confused. the North Chardon Coast is clearly on the map, is it not?
[2024-09-23 01:47 PM] rsulfuratus: but i have a fair bit of notes in a totally disorganized and not-necessarily-canon bunch of dm notes on the chardonian empire
[2024-09-23 01:47 PM] Deciusmus: Yes, that is. 
    Great Desert / Eastern Islands are not
[2024-09-23 01:47 PM] rsulfuratus: so it isn't really "a place you can use" as if you wanted to send your players there I'd need to sort out what is color, what is important, etc
[2024-09-23 01:48 PM] Deciusmus: Right, I guess that's true. In that sense, leaving as stub is important actually
[2024-09-23 01:48 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure that "clearly on the map" is an accurate guide to whether a place stub has unincorporated dm information is all i'm saying
[2024-09-23 01:49 PM] rsulfuratus: if you need to get rid of my stubs you can tag things you don't know what to do with status/stub-tim or something
[2024-09-23 01:49 PM] rsulfuratus: or status/stub, status/tim and just exclude things with status/tim from your stub search
[2024-09-23 01:49 PM] Deciusmus: no, if you have a lot of places with unincorporated DM notes I won't bother
[2024-09-23 01:50 PM] Deciusmus: I was vaguely assuming you didn't have a lot of notes about regions that were not in obsidian except for the "weird" places on the far edges of things
[2024-09-23 01:50 PM] Deciusmus: but I guess a lot of the places Great Library campaign went to you probably do have notes in OneNote or whatever
[2024-09-23 01:51 PM] rsulfuratus: the west coast is in kind of bad shape, it has (a) a bunch of great library stuff, and (b) a bunch of half made up notes when I thought you were going to go to Chardon and deal with Fausto directly before looking for the jade pieces  or on the way to the merfolk kelp
[2024-09-23 01:51 PM] rsulfuratus: and the whole chasa river valley / elderwood is all pre-obsidian so has a lot of stubs too
[2024-09-23 06:40 PM] Deciusmus: have you considered at all why werewolves turn during the full moon?
[2024-09-23 06:41 PM] Deciusmus: is it just that pandemonium is closer to taelgar? something else? just pondering in relationship to my PC who is dedicated to the moon
[2024-09-23 07:04 PM] rsulfuratus: I wrote this as an intro during the werewolf arc but nothing beyond the implications here:
    
    The world turns, night falls, and the stars begin to flicker in the sky over Dunmar. As the Fox and Hunter drift above the horizon, they watch the full moon rising for the 2,514th time, and listen. Their attention, as always, is drawn to the east, and north, where the prayers are the brightest and loudest, the hopes for safety, for healing, for peace that echo across the borderlands. They reach out, as they do every night, granting what minor miracles they can to the rangers who keep Sembara safe from the darkness of the Plague Lands.
    
    The work is easy tonight. As the moon turns to full the tidal pull of the Divine Presence grows stronger, filling the land, and the Source is easy to reach. The Fox thinks of days running in the forests of the north, and stretches across the world. The Hunter calls to him, reminds him of the task ahead, but remembers the joy of those early days too, the thrill and power of just running in the deep forests where he met the Fox.
    
    Their attention, though, does not stay on the forested Mostreve hills on the southern reaches of Sembara, nor the arid foothills where the people of the Refounded Alliance of Aurbez scratch out a living on the edge of the Plague Lands. The full moon also draws the darkness of the Void closer. The Hunter, always with one small part of his essence watching those who carry echoes of his companions of old, sees the madness pour into the soul of a poor innocent boy, a young dwarf not even of age, in west of Dunmar.
    
    (cont)
[2024-09-23 07:04 PM] rsulfuratus: While the Fox tends to the prayers of the rangers of Sembara, the Hunter watches Dunmar more closely for a moment. Across the desert and dry arid plains -- so hard not to cast the land in his mind's eye as it was -- the People of the Horse are moving. Sura, the sister of the current Samraat, has returned from an unreachable prison, and many people are gathering in her camps. And yet she is not marching to war, not yet.
    
    North of the city of Tokra, an old woman sits by the fire, wondering. The Hunter watches her a moment, sees the prayers streaming to Bhishma, asking when the strange travelers of her dreams will arrive, and how much should she tell them when they do? He senses the tangled future, but there is little he can do to shape that destiny.
    
    In Tokra, the poor innocent is snarling, consumed with the madness of Jinnik on this night of power. The waves of the Void crash over him, each wave reaching higher and higher up the beach, threatening to overwhelm his soul, until suddenly there is calm, clear water and silver twilight in the forests. The Fox comes running -- is this my home? No, the Hunter says, just an echo of what was lost, but that echo still has power.
    
    The tide madness recedes from the boy, but not from everywhere in this city. Elsewhere, the darkness of the Void is pulled tight, bound together with the souls of those who have submitted to its power. It will be harder to free these of the curse.

