# Discord DM – 2024-07-26

[2024-07-26 09:12 AM] rsulfuratus: working a bit on filling in multiverse / cosmology detail from the riving, and wondering about your feelings about the connection between metaphysics and mechanics. 
    
    for example, at the moment based on the way magic is set up in world, there isn't an obvious way to play a fey cleric. unless you have an unusual backstory where you came to worship a "foreign god"
    
    not sure how i feel about that? 
    
    it particularly impacts the children of the divine, although also potentially also impacts the "unusual species" 
    
    more generally, the basic logic of "divine magic is miracles granted by a god" poses a bit of a challenge for societies that don't seem to innately have gods (centaurs, merfolk, fey, etc) - do they also not have divine magic? and if they don't have divine magic is that a mechanical thing or can they have "clerics" just who generate the same effects from non-divine magic?
[2024-07-26 10:06 AM] Deciusmus: I like the idea of divine magic = miracles granted by a god and in general feel like it’s better to not get too focused on D&D mechanics
[2024-07-26 10:07 AM] Deciusmus: But I do think there is a bit of a gap around non-arcane / non-divine magic
[2024-07-26 10:08 AM] Deciusmus: That is, clearly on Taelgar there is:
    Arcane casters who channel the plane of magic somehow
    Divine casters who specifically get miracles from their gods
    “Other casters” = lots of other magical things that are currently somewhat ill defined in the metaphysics
[2024-07-26 10:08 AM] Deciusmus: I think that “other” category is where things like fey clerics and merfolk clerics would fall
[2024-07-26 10:16 AM] rsulfuratus: I guess I'm thinking more about two distinct gaps. 
    
    1) Do we care about matching mechanics to lore? That is, cleric/paladin spells in D&D have a certain flavor that is distinct from especially wizard spells. In some cases we've adopted D&D mechanics into lore (e.g., resurrection magic), in other cases not. Is there a reason to think that there are certain kinds of magical effects that are far more straightforward to create by divine magic than other ways? In some sense I think this is already in the lore to a certain extent, e.g. divine miracles tend to be around healing, things like that, but people don't go to a hedge wizard for healing and "Chardonian arcane magical energy" is not really focused around healing, it is things like controlling the wind, minor cantrips for cleaning and light, that kind of thing. Putting aside PC mechanics, is it therefore good or bad to have this play a significant role in worldbuilding, that is should, e.g., fey culture lean heavily away from healing, bless, that type of thing which is coded as "divine magic"? 
    
    (2) Separately, it sometimes feels as if there is something of a gap in the divine order. Is it really the case that *every* society that is not either human or one of the elder folk (including orcs) just doesn't worship gods at all? maybe yes, but I'm not sure I agree
[2024-07-26 10:19 AM] rsulfuratus: Re: other magic, I guess I haven't really seen this as a gap? Magic is just applying extraplanar energy to defy typical physics so the source of that extraplanar energy can come from anywhere. 
    
    Fey magic is just manipulating the resonances of the Riving to alter material plane physics using "fey logic". 
    
    Many druids might use resonances of the Elemental Planes, others might use the natural echos of the Riving in the Material Plane itself.
[2024-07-26 10:23 AM] Deciusmus: (More in a bit)
[2024-07-26 10:44 AM] Deciusmus: A few quick thoughts...
    
    (a) I do think that the general "tone" of divine vs arcane magic works, but also I think it doesn't have to be extremely precise or pre-decided. Fey for example seem like they'd lean heavily into enchantments and illusions but I wouldn't worry too much if that crosses the "cleric" vibe boundary (i.e. bless feels like a fey spell, maybe with a different gloss, but healing maybe less so in general). And I think it is good that Chardonian hedge wizards don't know healing spells.
    
    (b) I actually like that gods are a specific thing, not just this idea that every culture has to have a god. I'm not sure that means that no cultures can worship anything at all... isn't the idea of the "arch fey/great wrym/elder elemental/titan"  vibe to set up this alternative power structure that can provide god-like creatures in cultures were it makes sense?
[2024-07-26 10:45 AM] Deciusmus: It may be interesting to explore, what, if anything, is the metaphyiscal difference between the children of the divine vs embodied gods vs children of belief
[2024-07-26 10:50 AM] rsulfuratus: I think the part I'm uncertain about is what is, exactly, an archfey? or a great wyrm?
[2024-07-26 10:51 AM] rsulfuratus: the lore developing around the early days / mythic history strongly focuses on humanity as the creative force behind "outer planes", with some impact of embodied gods
[2024-07-26 10:51 AM] rsulfuratus: but if the "outer planes" are strongly tied to elder folk + humans, where are all the titans of old?
[2024-07-26 10:52 AM] Deciusmus: So one direction is to play into the idea of the "plane of creation / soul stuff" as something that the children of the divine lack access to. The titans are somewhere else, not an outer realm, but somewhere associated with the "lower planes" in your cosmology
[2024-07-26 10:53 AM] Deciusmus: The other direction, I think, is to say that's wrong, and all the children of the divine presence are sorta similar
[2024-07-26 10:53 AM] rsulfuratus: right, I think this is the fundamental vibe check I'm looking for
[2024-07-26 10:54 AM] Deciusmus: and so titans and great wyrms and archfey are really not metaphyically different from embodied gods or human gods
[2024-07-26 10:54 AM] rsulfuratus: metaphyiscally, is there something really very different about the first creations of the divine presence (elder elementals, titans, etc) and the second creations of the divine presence (embodied gods)
[2024-07-26 10:54 AM] rsulfuratus: right exactly
[2024-07-26 10:54 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure the answer
[2024-07-26 10:54 AM] rsulfuratus: the details, I think, don't matter too much, but the vibe makes a big difference. especially on fey lore
[2024-07-26 10:55 AM] Deciusmus: Right
[2024-07-26 10:55 AM] rsulfuratus: and kiya's questions about ultimately what is different between fey magic and wyrdling magic
[2024-07-26 10:56 AM] Deciusmus: What happens when a fey dies is an interesting question
[2024-07-26 10:56 AM] Deciusmus: I actually think it is easier to work out the vibes via thinking about whether there is something different about fey / giants / centaurs / merfolk / etc vs elves / dwarves / orcs / humans
[2024-07-26 10:57 AM] Deciusmus: Which I am torn on... on the one hand, one of the things I like about the metaphysics is this idea of the "firstborn" vs "humans" and the metaphysical differences
[2024-07-26 10:57 AM] Deciusmus: On the other hand, I don't love priviledging one group of species as "real people with souls" and therefore implying centaurs / fey etc don't have souls in the same way
[2024-07-26 10:58 AM] Deciusmus: but if centaurs or merfolk are the same as elves, what makes the "elder races" special and distinct?
[2024-07-26 11:00 AM] rsulfuratus: from one perspective, it is just because they were created in the age of creation, there is nothing else really distinct about them. just a question of timing, really
[2024-07-26 11:00 AM] rsulfuratus: not sure I agree / like that, but it is a possibility
[2024-07-26 11:01 AM] rsulfuratus: the firstborn are also the first entities that are called gods at least, and basically invent the concept of "deity"
[2024-07-26 11:02 AM] rsulfuratus: but maybe the root cause of Cha'mutte's war is that he was angry the so-called Firstborn claimed all the credit for their fancy ideas about "divinity" when really the true children of the divine were there are along. recast it as like a divine sibling war from greek myth
[2024-07-26 11:04 AM] rsulfuratus: on a mechanical level, I don't think it works for fey, etc to be "soulless", fwiw. putting aside any lore reasons, we also have for example the canonical fact of agata's soul hiding out in Seeker's ring
[2024-07-26 11:04 AM] Deciusmus: Right, agreed
[2024-07-26 11:05 AM] Deciusmus: Getting in car to drive Z but I’ll ponder more
[2024-07-26 01:11 PM] Deciusmus: So, a few thoughts while I eat lunch...
[2024-07-26 01:14 PM] Deciusmus: a) I think as first principles we should lean towards sticking with the basic idea around "firstborn (+orcs)" vs "humans" vs "hobgoblins" and that, atlhough it doesn't have to be canon that the firstborn are special and different, we should try to make that work before changing it. 
    
    b) I think we are agreed that there is a wide variety of sentient creatures on Taelgar that are neither humans/hobgoblins/firstborn/orcs, but that nevertheless have a soul (in the sense of a essence that is distinct from the material body and that can be ressurected, banished, stolen, trapped, etc
[2024-07-26 01:17 PM] Deciusmus: c) From a vibes perspective, I think there are clear divisions within the sentient creatures between "species" and "magical entities". WIthout necessarily getting into a sidetrack about where do babies come from and so on, there is definitely a different vibe around say fey - who are all a "type" but where hags don't so obviously start life as baby hags vs say dwarves, elves, or kenku, who all clearly have some type of species continuity
[2024-07-26 01:28 PM] rsulfuratus: So, just throwing out some thoughts. Part my impetus for thinking about this is the idea of the “barrier of the land of the dead”, which sets up a very strong metaphysical distinction between eg demons (who cannot be killed on an “inner plane”, merely banished), and “creatures of the ~inner planes~
[2024-07-26 01:29 PM] rsulfuratus: But then you get the problem of what all these other species are?
[2024-07-26 01:29 PM] rsulfuratus: And I guess I lean towards they all basically work the same way at a fundamental metaphysical level
[2024-07-26 01:30 PM] rsulfuratus: Which isn’t to say the “elder folk” isn’t a meaningful category
[2024-07-26 01:30 PM] rsulfuratus: But, on the other hand, the centaurs are the star of their own story too
[2024-07-26 01:32 PM] rsulfuratus: Which I think is consitdtent with your point (b)
[2024-07-26 01:32 PM] Deciusmus: One stab at a synthesis...
    
    In the Age of Myth, all was changeable, and the flexibility of raw magical energy meant that although an infinite number of things could be created, at the same time nothing was "real". Only the children of the divine, not their creations, had permenance/self/soul, for they had been given soul-stuff by the Divine. These direct children of the divine are rare and powerful, basically they are the same as the embodied gods metaphysically. 
    
    In the moment of the RIving, however, with the creation of the Astral Plane and the the Plane of Creation, the echoes and reverberations allowed this soul stuff to be "caught" by some of the echoes and creations of the Children of the Divine, giving them permeance and self, and power, in some sense proportional to the luck/skill/whatever that allowed one fey bundle of magic to catch much more of the essence of creation than another
[2024-07-26 01:34 PM] Deciusmus: ... I'm not totally sure where I am going with this
[2024-07-26 01:35 PM] Deciusmus: But I guess the thought was to set up a distinction between
    
    (a) fey and elementals, in particular, who are more creations of the echo realms, in some way, than creations of any particular god
    (b) set up fey in particular as having a gradient of power. Some arch fey are much more powerful than others, and I wonder if any of the original, god-like children of the divine archfey really still exist?
[2024-07-26 01:38 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that is fine as far as it goes
[2024-07-26 01:40 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess I’m more thinking about though, from a basic “soul” point of view, what’s the line? 
    
    In current lore, you have humans/elder folk with clear metaphysics, and everything else very vague. 
    
    I’m leaning toward something that is more: any sentient, self-aware being on Taelgar is, in some way, partially made of ~soul stuff~
[2024-07-26 01:41 PM] rsulfuratus: The details can be blurry and variable for different species, of course
[2024-07-26 01:43 PM] rsulfuratus: The one plausible exception might Far Realm aberrations
[2024-07-26 01:44 PM] Deciusmus: I also think there is potentially a reasonable way to make a metaphysical distinction between some different types of creatures, specifically:
    
    (a) the echo/inner realm inhabitants - in particular fey and elementals, but maybe some others as well, who clearly have souls but also, I am pretty sure, don't have "creator gods" and also have (I think) wide variants in power between different ones of the same "type"
    
    (b) the demons/devils/angels/etc - outer plane inhabitants - who are, in some sense, "native soul stuff", and are much more directly tied to the energy of creation and the barrier of the land of the dead and so on
    
    (c) far realms creatures, who I think definitely don't have Taelgarian souls at all, and are odd and unique and come from "elsewhere"
    
    (d) the elder folk (+ orcs), whose soul stuff was distinctly, uniquely, and specifically shaped by their firstborn (+ maybe the kenku, pending Aerin's specifics)
    
    (e) humans, whose soul stuff is explicitly shaped/given by the Divine Presence and has the Divine Spark
    
    (f) the unique creatures: centaurs merfolk kobolds giants at least, maybe others. But what distinguishes unique creatures from elder folk + humans is that, for whatever reason, their soul stuff did not come from a god or other specific "divine" entity
[2024-07-26 01:45 PM] Deciusmus: What really distinguishes (d) from (f) is not metaphysics but origin. The creaturs in (d) are a unique category because they have gods who shape their soul stuff into their species. The creatures in (f) do not have gods, or at least, if they worship something, it isn't their creator
[2024-07-26 01:47 PM] rsulfuratus: Right, I think all makes sense. Although for example merfolk might very workshop the sentient ocean, who is their creature but not a god (in the sense of being a being of “creative energy”)
[2024-07-26 01:47 PM] rsulfuratus: `*`worship
[2024-07-26 01:49 PM] rsulfuratus: So metaphysically, devils are functionally gods, just very weak ones
[2024-07-26 01:49 PM] rsulfuratus: As being of “pure soul stuff”
[2024-07-26 01:50 PM] Deciusmus: Right in the case of the merfolk the metaphysics are probably very different than say dwarves. The sentient ocean as a Far Realm being has no access to "taelgar soul stuff" in the way an embodied god would, and whatever magic was used to create/awaken/etc the merfolk they got their souls in some different way than being given them by the sentient ocean
[2024-07-26 01:51 PM] Deciusmus: Yes. Although the same is true of ghosts and dead humans, right?
[2024-07-26 01:53 PM] rsulfuratus: Hmm. I’m not sure why the sentient ocean couldn’t have access to ~soul stuff~. I think what I’m arguing for is thinking of -soul stuff- as essentially another force like magic
[2024-07-26 01:53 PM] rsulfuratus: But obviously a lot harder to use
[2024-07-26 01:53 PM] Deciusmus: Right, I guess being made of soul stuff and being able to access it for magic are two different things
[2024-07-26 02:00 PM] rsulfuratus: so, to summarize, I think the logic is:
    
    (1) major divisions of living or sort-of-living things in Taelgar:
    
    (a) Sentient, self-aware creatures that are native to the "inner realms" (echo realms + energy realms + anything else that might be invented that is "protected" from the raw power of the Plane of Creation by the Land of the Dead), are sentient and self-aware because they are animated by a fragment of ~soulstuff~. When they die, this fragment typically travels to the Land of the Dead, and eventually passes beyond into the "Outer Realms". 
    
    (b) Sentient, self-aware creatures native to the "outer realms" (spiritual realms + astral plane + anything on the "Plane of Creation" side of the Land of the Dead) are pure beings of soulstuff, manifest into physical form. When killed in the "inner realms", they return to their native plane, possibly changed. They can only be fully destroyed when beyond the Land of the Dead. 
    
    (c) Some creatures (many constructs, some undead, simlacrums, perhaps some elementals, etc) are sentient and self-aware but only by using the raw energy of the Plane of Magic in imitation of "soulstuff". These creatures simply cease to exist if destroyed, wherever they are.
[2024-07-26 02:01 PM] rsulfuratus: (d) Creatures from the Far Realms, where different rules apply.
[2024-07-26 02:01 PM] rsulfuratus: (e) Beasts or other kinds of non-self-aware, non-sentient creatures are just creatures
[2024-07-26 02:03 PM] rsulfuratus: Then, most of the "interesting" distinctions are within (a), and this has a lot to do with origin stories and how each individual species / creature gained access to "soulstuff".
[2024-07-26 02:03 PM] Deciusmus: Right
[2024-07-26 02:05 PM] Deciusmus: This all fits pretty well with the Creating New Species document, although I think the distinctions in (a) probably don't map well onto that document
[2024-07-26 02:11 PM] rsulfuratus: I think the big vibe shift is kind of opening things up to diverse ways that various non-divine entities might have had access to "soul stuff magic" to create things
[2024-07-26 02:11 PM] Deciusmus: I would also add that I think it is worth establishing that within (a) there is basically 3 categories:
    
    (a) humans, who were given Divine-Spark-enabled soul stuff directly from the Divine Presence
    (b) the "created" races (elves, dwarves, halflings, lizardfolk, stoneborn, orcs, and maybe kenku) who are distinguished via the story of a creator god who specifically shaped them
    (c) other (everyone else) whose only real distinguishing trait should be that they are not (b)
[2024-07-26 02:12 PM] Deciusmus: I guess I'm not sure how that plays out exactly, but I still think it is important to preserve something unique about the "firstborn" races
[2024-07-26 02:13 PM] Deciusmus: That is, I guess I mean, I still think it is worth thinking about how (b) is different from (c) in a way that provides a canonical reason why centaurs and merfolk were not targeted by Cha'mutte
[2024-07-26 02:14 PM] rsulfuratus: I would say that the clear metaphyiscal uniqueness there is actually in the nature of the embodied gods
[2024-07-26 02:14 PM] rsulfuratus: that is, you have say four (currently) types of beings that are "made of soulstuff"
[2024-07-26 02:15 PM] rsulfuratus: (a) the children of the divine
    (b) the embodied gods
    (c) the incorporeal gods and everything related to them (which would, in this case, stretch to natives of "outer planes")
    (d) the divine presence themselves
[2024-07-26 02:15 PM] rsulfuratus: the unique think about the firstborn is they are the only sentient species created by (b)
[2024-07-26 02:15 PM] Deciusmus: Right so the idea would be that actually you have a distinction like
    
    (a) humans, created by Divine Presence
    (b) firstborn, created by the Embodied Gods, who are a specific group with unique commonalities 
    (c) others, created by something or someone else, who is definitely not an Embodied God, because the embodied gods are specific group of entities
[2024-07-26 02:16 PM] rsulfuratus: exactly
[2024-07-26 02:16 PM] rsulfuratus: I actually think this implies perhaps a bit of revision of the void mind and the three despairs, to make Thark unique as the only embodied god among the Void Mind creations
[2024-07-26 02:17 PM] rsulfuratus: which is in practice how things have played out in game, with Thark clearly distinct from e.g. Jinnik
[2024-07-26 02:17 PM] Deciusmus: It also suggests that the earlier statement - that there is nothing special about the embodied gods - is probably wrong
[2024-07-26 02:19 PM] rsulfuratus: I think there is nothing special in the sense that they, like the children of the divine and the incorporeal gods, are "powerful beings made of the energy of creation"
    
    but, metaphysically, there is something unique about the way they are created that is distinct from the way the children of the divine or the incorporeal gods are created
[2024-07-26 02:21 PM] rsulfuratus: the original idea is that they are physically embodied in a way the incorporeal gods are not, and so are not tied to belief in the same way. so there are differences
[2024-07-26 02:22 PM] Deciusmus: Radical thought: should titans elder elementals arch fey great worms actually still exist?
[2024-07-26 02:23 PM] rsulfuratus: what, like Cha'mutte was the last of his kind?
[2024-07-26 02:23 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe
[2024-07-26 02:23 PM] Deciusmus: What if, for the most part, they were somehow consumed/destroyed/turned into echos during the Riving
[2024-07-26 02:23 PM] rsulfuratus: although that raises questions. like, what is Gazankoa if not an elder elemental?
[2024-07-26 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: or the various archfey?
[2024-07-26 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: or, i guess, maybe the point is there were once `*`even more powerful* versions of these that disappeared?
[2024-07-26 02:24 PM] Deciusmus: Right, that was the idea
[2024-07-26 02:25 PM] Deciusmus: The archfey are just really powerful fey now. None of the existing arch fey were actually alive in any meaningful sense before the riving
[2024-07-26 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure that is an important detail to decide on at the moment, but worth keeping in mind
[2024-07-26 02:28 PM] Deciusmus: I guess its more a vibe-thing: I don't think we should necessarily think of Ethlenn and Gazankoa and Cha'mutte as necessarily "siblings" or "part of the same creation"
[2024-07-26 02:28 PM] Deciusmus: or even "the same type of thing" in the way that Elmerca and the Bahazeal are "the same type of thing"
[2024-07-26 02:29 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, from a vibes perspective I think that makes sense, but also there could have been a lot of diversity pre-Riving. and how would you even remember stuff if linear casuality doesn't work? it is possible that entities that survived the riving emerged deeply changed
[2024-07-26 02:30 PM] Deciusmus: Right
[2024-07-26 02:30 PM] rsulfuratus: I have a meeting at 2:30 but am going to try to edit the creating new species doc and clean up a few lingering history of taelgar edits and then make PR to merge the history-rewrite branch later this afternoon or tonight
[2024-07-26 05:41 PM] Deciusmus: I left a few notes about the species stuff... but go ahead and merge I liked all the timeline stuff
[2024-07-26 05:47 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm slightly editing the species doc. my intention is not to suggest there are lots of additional species that are associated with dragons/fey/elementals/giants, but rather that giants, dragons (+kobolds), fey (many different species), and elementals (many different species) are their own thing separate from the more general "awakened/cursed/other" category
[2024-07-26 05:47 PM] Deciusmus: are they necessarily though?
[2024-07-26 05:48 PM] Deciusmus: in practice I don't think it matters
[2024-07-26 05:48 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe not really
[2024-07-26 05:48 PM] Deciusmus: but I'm questioning whether, i.e. Titans should necessarily be considered canonical
[2024-07-26 05:49 PM] Deciusmus: or whether it means anything to say "Dragons were `[something]` by great wyrms"
[2024-07-26 05:49 PM] Deciusmus: I think that is maybe under considered and if we ever decided to make up the history of dragons and what they are precisely, the existence or not of great wryrms in the age of myth isn't super relevant
[2024-07-26 05:50 PM] Deciusmus: same deal with giants; whether titans are a real thing or not I'm not sure it is meaning to say that giants are in some sense an "echo" of titans.
[2024-07-26 05:51 PM] Deciusmus: This is more relevant to me in terms of the fey where I'm not at all convinced that the story is "archfey created fey" but maybe something more like "some type of essence that has been conceptualized as fey by the current fey existed before time and its transformation during the Riving created many different fey creatures, of widely varying power levels"
[2024-07-26 05:52 PM] rsulfuratus: i am fairly attached to the idea that giants and dragons are somehow larger than life and have this history of being vastly more powerful, with echoes of that power (e.g., phasing stones, flying castles) lingering
[2024-07-26 05:52 PM] rsulfuratus: i think the fey and elementals are distinct and in some ways more complicated and so perhaps not too helpful to lump all four groups together
[2024-07-26 05:53 PM] Deciusmus: Again, not sure it matters in the species doc; I'm really just arguing that sentient species - including fey/giants/elementals - should have some kind of unique creation story and/or a canonically blank space filled only with vibes
[2024-07-26 05:54 PM] Deciusmus: I'd rather say:
    
    Giants and dragons are, in some sense, echoes or descendants or creations of the beings of pure magical energy that existed before the Riving
[2024-07-26 05:54 PM] Deciusmus: and than describe your vibe thing above
[2024-07-26 05:54 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2024-07-26 05:56 PM] Deciusmus: I actually think it solves some problems to just say the time before the Riving was in some sense unknowable and is vibes based only and be judicious about which existing structures on Taelgar echo back to a pre-Riving time.
    
    Clearly giants, dragons, fey, and elementals do (although for different reasons) but I'm not sure it would be a problem if a fifth category came along that should also echo back to ancient days. But that doesn't necessarily imply the existing of some specific set of entities created by the Divine Presence
[2024-07-26 05:58 PM] rsulfuratus: thinking about what is actually in game and not world building, I think:
    - the vibe I described about giants and dragons is important, and also for giants some kind of history/echo of much stronger magic in the past that is connected to rune magic and the dwarven firstborn and such (leading to myths -- maybe true, maybe not -- that the Runecrafter learned magic from ~someone/something~ during the Riving)
    - the fey are diverse and despite having different forms and power have a shared history, so it doesn't necessarily make sense to have a separate "origin story" for satyrs vs pixies, for example. the fey, writ large, have a kind of collective origin of some kind, dating to the riving
    - elementals are similar, albeit someone more hierarchical and ordered, and much more commonly soullles magical creations (most standard "water elementals" or whatever are this) than fey are, and they are orgainzed around rulers of each domain (e.g., marid, djinni, efreeti, dao), who in tern owe allegiance to some kind of "elemental powers" of which gazankoa is the only named example
[2024-07-26 05:59 PM] rsulfuratus: but yes that dynamic (unknowable, vibes based) probably makes sense
[2024-07-26 05:59 PM] rsulfuratus: for pre-riving "history"
[2024-07-26 06:02 PM] Deciusmus: Right, I agree about all of that, but I actually think it is more important to, i.e. state that the fey, as a "type of creature" have a shared origin that dates to the Riving than to try to say that "archfey" existing before the riving and fey are somehow related.
    
    and I also think that "echoes of the Riving" is a potentially more flexible category than just fey/elementals/dragons/giants but also doesn't necessarily include say kobolds and trolls even though kobolds are dragon-ish and trolls are giant-ish
[2024-07-26 06:05 PM] rsulfuratus: so, I think I might modify the inner plane native to separate out "echoes of the riving" (fey, elementals, dragons, giants at the moment), from "other" and then merge "corrupted, awakened, unusual" into "other" which is just everything else
[2024-07-26 06:06 PM] Deciusmus: yeah that makes sense to me
[2024-07-26 06:06 PM] Deciusmus: although actually corrupted I thought was a decent category on its own
[2024-07-26 06:06 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, right, good to keep that as well
[2024-07-26 06:08 PM] Deciusmus: Mentally, it feels to me like the areas I'd be comfortable just randomly introducing something in game without some kind of pre-dicsussion (YMMV might be reasonably different than mine) would be 
    (a) corrupted
    (b) types of fey or elementals
    (c) beasts
    (d) magical creations
    (e) children of creation
    (f) abberations
    
    But things that didn't fit in those categories I'd probably want a better story and compelling reason
[2024-07-26 06:09 PM] Deciusmus: Which is were in particular, I find the species guide useful. To define the types of things that are "common" vs "rare", in some sense
[2024-07-26 06:35 PM] rsulfuratus: I think that is reasonable. i pushed an update that I think is clearer. will slightly tweak age of myth text, and then merge, later tonight
[2024-07-26 06:36 PM] rsulfuratus: also might add explicit comments about "easy to add things" and "think about it" and "probably don't" to the now 10 categories
[2024-07-26 06:36 PM] rsulfuratus: but having dinner now
[2024-07-26 07:48 PM] rsulfuratus: merged

