# Discord DM – 2024-09-25

[2024-09-25 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: what do you think about the following...
    
    Ethlenn has some natural magic - something about her from before the Riving - that lets her draw the Feywild closer to Taelgar. This means she leaves behind portals, sometimes, and can strengthen a weak spot into a permanent portal. In a way, this is why there are so many fey portals in the fey belt - Ethlenn created them.
    
    The fey portal in Cleenseau is ancient, but collapsed, perhaps during the downfall. It became a weak spot but with a lot of odd resonances and "waves" (i'm imagining almost like a part of the fey wild, or of taelgar that is bouncing or moving and sometimes is a true weak spot, othertimes is far away). 
    
    Rarely, this bouncing odditiy of a portal actually opens, which Umbraeth quite likes, because the portals from Duskmire to Taelgar are all mostly not nearby to human (i.e. in the Darkwood or whatever)
    
    Recently, the lich has made a deal with Umbraeth, and given him a stablizing magic item of some kinda, which lets Umbraeth periodically strengthen and stablize the portal, but it isn't a permanent solution for some reason.
    
    Instead, Umbraeth has learned (possibly also from the lich) that Ethlenn has this magic ability to stabilize portals, and if he can get something infused with Ethlenn's magic, he can stabilize the portal forever.
[2024-09-25 02:24 PM] Deciusmus: "Something infused with Ethlenn's magic" is Elaine II, the Queen of Tyrwingha. She is descended from an Oracle of the Riven, Morgaine, who was clearly a bit unusual (she lived to 113), and the royal line of Tyrwingha is somehow infused with Ethlenn's magic, and Elaine's father, Gyles, was born of some kind of fey magic that allowed his mothers (Annabeth and Morgaine, aforementioned) to have a biological child.
    
    All of this makes Umbraeth believe (perhaps accurately) that if he can kill Elaine and take her heart to the feywild, he can make the portal permaent.
    
    On the other hand, if the lich artifact keeping it open at the moment is destroyed on the feywild side, the echoes of the destruction will close the portal forever
[2024-09-25 02:25 PM] Deciusmus: Perhaps even better is if Umbraeth has learned this independently of the lich; having the lich be defeated and snagging Elaine when she becomes queen of sembara is probably easier for him than getting her in tyrwingha, which would be very hard

