# Discord DM – 2024-05-07

[2024-05-07 08:04 PM] rsulfuratus: I got sucked into a rabbit hole about the Villa of Papyri (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Villa_of_the_Papyri) and then reading about the transition from papyrus scrolls to parchment manuscripts and the massive impact that tastes in the 7th and 8th centuries had on what Greek and Roman literature survived into the middle ages and thus to the modern day. 
    
    Which made me wonder about Taelgar's document tradition and its impact on what survives now. I haven't given it much thought, but for example do the elves have parchment or paper from the beginning? When do humans on Hkar develop parchment and books?
    
    Partially just idle thoughts, but partially matters for e.g. set dressing for Drankor. Are there lots of ancient books lying around in Drankor carried over from Hkar, for example? Is catastrophes the main source of knowledge loss, or do you have the same kind of document decay as in the real world, or some combination? 
    
    Just kind of curious meanderings, in case you have any thoughts.
[2024-05-07 08:09 PM] Deciusmus: I don’t have any really detailed thoughts but I did introduce the idea of a “lost manuscript” from Drankor that survives only in a fragment embedded in a review of a play
[2024-05-07 08:09 PM] Deciusmus: Which was intentionally modeled on how Romans quoted other works which in turn sometimes survived when the original work was lost
[2024-05-07 08:16 PM] Deciusmus: I do think there are a lot of catastrophies though - so there is no clear need for document decay per se.
[2024-05-07 08:19 PM] Deciusmus: I imagine a fairly literate population - enough to sustain a post/messenger system and have court records, military dispatches, etc be common.

