# Discord DM – 2025-11-16

[2025-11-16 10:23 AM] rsulfuratus: was thinking more about these issues while birding this morning, have some more (long) thoughts
[2025-11-16 10:24 AM] rsulfuratus: to me, though i don't know if you agree, there are several interrelated issues that arise both from how D&D treats skills and our specific table culture
[2025-11-16 10:26 AM] rsulfuratus: i don't actually think the names of the skills or the way ability checks work is badly designed, really. rather, the issue is that skills are really treated as part of your character's background - they are what you knew before you started adventuring and what you learned when you got your class. while you get better at the stuff you know already as you level up, with a few exceptions most characters are basically done with skills by level 1. there are a lot of ways the game gives you to interact with ability checks as you level up, but these are almost all things like adding a die to an ability check or other kinds of modifiers - they don't increase the breadth of your skill base, so to speak
[2025-11-16 10:28 AM] rsulfuratus: so this makes the choices you make at level 1 kind of fixed
[2025-11-16 10:29 AM] rsulfuratus: at least in part this is just a facet of class based design
[2025-11-16 10:33 AM] rsulfuratus: related to this is the fact that a lot of the time, it feels like ability checks are high stakes. this is partly a dming issue, partly a table issue, and i think arises from complex reasons, but whatever the cause, rolling only a handful of high stakes ability checks during a session i think strongly pushes people to not try things they aren't good at. i think this has some interrelated consequences in terms of character building stakes (since ability checks feel high stakes, you don't want to 'waste' a skill proficiency on something that isn't reliably useful) and in terms of the issue of the ideas around narrative proficiency (if you are never trying things you aren't clearly good at, you have less opportunity for creativity and flexibility with when to add your proficiency bonus).
[2025-11-16 10:35 AM] rsulfuratus: finally there is the kind of issue that you were bringing up at the nantucket postgame discussion, where things like "kenzo using his bhishma connection to mediate and pray with the monks in limbo" really shouldn't fail
[2025-11-16 10:36 AM] rsulfuratus: which is a consequence of skills being too broad already - there is no "meditation" skill like there might be in GURPs and so no RAW way to be good at narrow subsets of things
[2025-11-16 10:36 AM] Deciusmus: I actually _don't_ think that ability checks always felt high stakes in Dunmari Frontier.
    
    There was a specific class of "skill challenge" that tended to be constructed as a high stakes ability check (i.e. the monks in Limbo). But I feel like there were plenty of times when ability checks were one of many different options. Delwath had lots of low stakes persuasion checks, for example. (Some memorable successes, but i.e. the attempt to persuade the bandits in the Copper Hills to follow us didn't feel high stakes at all)
[2025-11-16 10:38 AM] rsulfuratus: maybe, yeah. i guess i tended to remember the times people were grumpy about having to roll a check they weren't good at, but maybe it looks different from the other side of the table. i guess though it isn't so much high stakes but only rolling rarely as kind of final resolution that is what i'm thinking about
[2025-11-16 10:38 AM] rsulfuratus: like maybe the outcome didn't matter one way or the other, but the check was high stakes in the sense that i tended to run things with 'you talk for a while and then roll a check and it either succeeds or fails and that's it' - which i think is not the best way to do it
[2025-11-16 10:39 AM] rsulfuratus: so it is high stakes not in the sense of "we must succeed or we are doomed" but high stakes in the sense of "you get one chance at this"
[2025-11-16 10:40 AM] Deciusmus: I dunno, I think you are selling yourself short a bit. From a persuasion standpoint at least, my memory at least is the "one attempt" mechanic actually never felt annoying.  I mostly felt a little annoyed when Delwath struggled to be able to talk so I couldn't even attempt persuasion because of language issues. It - at least in memory - generally felt like persuasion was one option, but not the only one, and a failure just meant try something else
[2025-11-16 10:41 AM] Deciusmus: Similarly of course there were plenty of Stealth / Perception / Insight checks that never felt high stakes
[2025-11-16 10:42 AM] rsulfuratus: hmm. maybe. my memory is probably biased towards the things i felt like i could have run better
[2025-11-16 10:42 AM] Deciusmus: In my memory at least, where I think the ability check mechanic broke down was things that were explictly constructed as "skill challenges", i.e. the monks in limbo.
[2025-11-16 10:43 AM] Deciusmus: I think you generally tried to make it iterative / interesting, but the mechanic didn't live up to the roleplaying.
[2025-11-16 10:45 AM] Deciusmus: So again, because it is fresh in my mind, the monks in limbo challenge is kinda tricky to run, actually.
    
    It is a cool role playing moment - there are these monks who have forgotten who they are, and are trying to drag us down/stop us from getting through.
    
    But it isn't clear what "failure" looks like here or what the purpose of the skill check is. From a player perspective, it felt like an opportunity to be creative, and the table culture had already kinda evolved into the meta direction of everyone gets to try it (rather than the more realistic, Kenzo does it all)
[2025-11-16 10:46 AM] Deciusmus: But once I've come up with the interesting idea, why I am rolling? What are the stakes?
[2025-11-16 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: so originally the way that was constructed was only one person had to succeed to get through the barrier, but for each other who succeeds you save an extra lost monk. but that didn't come across
[2025-11-16 10:50 AM] Deciusmus: In hindsight, it might have worked better to have a MUCH wider set of DCs, and to have something like:
    
    Fail by more than 5: the monk attacks (we have to ignore or fight off the attacking monk)
    Fail by less than 5: the monk graps the craft, holding you still, and slowing you down (this monk is lost, but you get another chance)
    Succeed: the monk disappears
    Succeed by more than 5: the monk remembers themselves
    
    Then set the DC to anywhere from say 8 to 25 depending on the roleplay. If Kenzo is rolling against raw Wis + Prof, with a DC of 8, the roll is just if you get a 1 the monk disappears higher than that, saved. But it gives a mechanism for someone like Wellby to power through on raw talent, via a high DC
[2025-11-16 10:51 AM] Deciusmus: But that is actually the kind of game situation where narrative proficiencies work perfectly, because it is all narrated anyway. The DM is just using the mechanic of the narrative response in game to decide which stat + prof bonus or not.
    
    Expertise, Reliable Talent, and Jack of All Trades make it a little bit more complicated to adjicate, but..
[2025-11-16 10:52 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah, something like that probably would have worked better
    
    and yes this is where i actually started thinking about narrative proficiencies, where it seems like if you are doing something that is connected to what your character is good at you should be good at it. and it is kinda boring for kenzo to always try to roll insight in those situations, and delwath to always try to roll persuasion, etc
[2025-11-16 10:57 AM] rsulfuratus: but to the larger point, i think that the things i'm trying to optimize for are one, yes, making 'narrative challenges' like this run more smoothly by giving people more flexibility to draw from their character, but also just get people rolling a little more and lean a little more into the dice helping tell the story than we sometimes have in the past. i think reworking the entire skill list probably feels to overbearing for that. i'll be very curious to see how the idea of narrative proficiencies works for the chasm game, and it is probably sensible to just see what happens there and then iterate based on actual table experience. 
    
    maybe for the taelgar-2 adventure i'll experiment with language proficiences  - although not totally clear that is the best context for it as that is likely to be more like a heist adventure
[2025-11-16 11:00 AM] Deciusmus: The idea behind reworking the skill list is ultimately to make it a lot simpler and encourage people to lean mostly on narrative proficiencies. I want to see how narrative proficiencies work first, but I do think that having a small set of 6-9 skills that are specifically called for by the DM in specific circumstances, as well as an open ended set of narrative proficiencies that are used in the more creative side of "skill checks" is actually a lot easier for people to understand, especially a table culture that actually mostly has no idea what skills exist in D&D or why you'd take them
[2025-11-16 11:02 AM] Deciusmus: But I actually think the best apporach is to try out narrative skills first. If that is something that catches people's imagination and seems to work, it is a lot easier to propose a simplified skill list as a way to be good at some mechanical things in addition to the (primary) way to do skills, which is narrative
[2025-11-16 11:04 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah agree. 
    
    i also think the way information is presented in D&D beyond is really bad. i think having something in roll20 that just has a button to roll a 3D dice for each ability check, and then having a list of proficiencies, would make things way smoother
[2025-11-16 11:04 AM] rsulfuratus: the list of proficiencies would be a mix of narrative sentences and D&D skill names with like 5-10 words in parenthesis about what it is good for
[2025-11-16 11:05 AM] rsulfuratus: i was actually considering something like dropping the interactive zoom background, and instead making like a Roll20 landing page with a changeable background image for the session, character portraits for each character, and a list of proficiencies
[2025-11-16 11:06 AM] Deciusmus: My plan was to just call for ability checks (and explain to people to just click the big +4 above the ability to roll it) and then if proficiency applies and the +3 myself
[2025-11-16 11:06 AM] rsulfuratus: that also works
[2025-11-16 11:06 AM] Deciusmus: the only thing it doesn't work well for is remembering expertise
[2025-11-16 11:06 AM] rsulfuratus: well i'll remember expertise
[2025-11-16 11:06 AM] Deciusmus: Kate might not though'
[2025-11-16 11:06 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah true
[2025-11-16 11:07 AM] Deciusmus: btw, I don't remember what kind of bard you envision Finnan as, but if music intstructments don't fit, feel free to replace them with a bonus narrative proficiency
[2025-11-16 11:08 AM] Deciusmus: I wasn't going to confuse people by telling them tools don't exist anymore, but I do kinda plan to ignore them
[2025-11-16 11:08 AM] rsulfuratus: finnan is like olive dame campbell but for zimkova instead of appalacia
[2025-11-16 11:09 AM] rsulfuratus: i actually really like tool proficiencies in the new PHB. we use them all the time in my family game
[2025-11-16 11:10 AM] Deciusmus: just the special utilize actions it gives you?
[2025-11-16 11:10 AM] Deciusmus: or somethingmore?
[2025-11-16 11:11 AM] rsulfuratus: mostly just the utilize actions, but also crafting to an extent. nathaniel likes making potions with his alchemists kit
[2025-11-16 11:11 AM] Deciusmus: I do like the idea of crafting
[2025-11-16 11:12 AM] Deciusmus: To me the utilize actions are just narrative proficiencies though
[2025-11-16 11:13 AM] rsulfuratus: sure, i guess that is a way to think about them. but for my family game we tend to aim for pretty basic RAW and it is nice to have something narrative-proficiency-ish
[2025-11-16 11:13 AM] rsulfuratus: also i like the advantage if you have tool + skill rule
[2025-11-16 11:14 AM] rsulfuratus: kate uses that a lot to get advantage on performance checks in our family game, or for example isaac uses that to get advantage on survival checks when they have a map (with navigator's tools)
[2025-11-16 11:14 AM] Deciusmus: Right, there is something to be said for an advantage mechanic
[2025-11-16 11:15 AM] Deciusmus: although I really think tools are just the 5E way to try to add some flavor to characters
[2025-11-16 11:15 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i don't disagree with that, but i think they actually do a pretty good job of it. certainly it is apparent in my family game where nathaniel especially is more rules-oriented than story-oriented in some ways
[2025-11-16 11:16 AM] rsulfuratus: for our taelgar table they are probably less useful in general because most people have the exact opposite orientation
[2025-11-16 11:16 AM] Deciusmus: Right
[2025-11-16 11:18 AM] rsulfuratus: i also actually really like Book and Map adventuring gear rules, e.g. 
    
    Book (25 GP)
    A Book contains fiction or nonfiction. If you consult an accurate nonfiction Book about its topic, you gain a +5 bonus to Intelligence (Arcana, History, Nature, or Religion) checks you make about that topic.
    
    Map (1 GP)
    If you consult an accurate Map, you gain a +5 bonus to Wisdom (Survival) checks you make to find your way in the place represented on it.
    
    which, again, are kind of like narrative proficiencies in a sense, but give you a way to benefit from preparation
[2025-11-16 11:20 AM] Deciusmus: Yeah I like that as well, although if you just remove the (skill) it works well to apply to any check that makes sense to apply to
[2025-11-16 11:20 AM] rsulfuratus: sure
[2025-11-16 11:21 AM] Deciusmus: Btw, I’m tweaking the start a bit so giving everyone one iconic/interesting magic item. Any general ideas for Finnan? I’m a little stuck on what would make sense
[2025-11-16 11:33 AM] rsulfuratus: classic bard items would fit, e.g. instrument of the bards or rhythm maker's drum or pipes of haunting, although might reflavor them
    
    or something like this: https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4239818-lorehold-primer
    
    or something like:
    https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/7526748-ring-of-puzzlers-wit
[2025-11-16 12:00 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed backstory and added narrative proficiencies to backstory on finnan's character sheet
[2025-11-16 12:03 PM] Deciusmus: How about this….
    
    Ring of Awakened Lore. 
    
    5 charges. Regains 1d3+2 charges at dawn.
    
    1 charge - advantage on intelligence check
    3 charges - you can awaken and object, corpse, or animal to sentience and ask it a single question. It does not have to respond truthfully
    All charges - cast legend lore, without material components.  Permanently removes a single charge from the ring
[2025-11-16 12:11 PM] rsulfuratus: i like the vibe. the last ability feels a bit off for a one shot tbh, there is some tension between the meta-game (i'm not playing this character again) and the in-game (would finnan really sacrifice a charge for this). 
    
    i would make it instead something like:
    -  5 charges
    - if you use it the ring does not regain charges for 24 hours or you can only use the ability once every 7 days 
    - the effect is something like the bastion Library ability, but only targeting a person you can see, an object you can touch, or a legend/story/tale that you know
    
    ---
    Research: Topical Lore. When you issue the Research order to this facility, you commission the facility’s hireling to research a topic. The topic can be a legend, a known event or location, a person of significance, a type of creature, or a famous object. The work takes 7 days. When the research concludes, the hireling obtains up to three accurate pieces of information about the topic that were previously unknown to you and shares this knowledge with you the next time you speak with them. The DM determines what information you learn.
[2025-11-16 12:20 PM] Deciusmus: I was thinking of it just meta, it felt balanced for a one shot- you have kinda one free use of legend lore, and then maybe a second one but it cuts into advantage a bit, and you’d never use the third as it kills the main use of the ring.
[2025-11-16 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: But there is the “in world would finnan really do this”
[2025-11-16 12:21 PM] rsulfuratus: right, it works from a meta perspective, i just don't really love the tension with the role playing aspect
[2025-11-16 12:22 PM] Deciusmus: On the other hand, once every 7 days, kinda implies finnan would have been constantly legend loring stuff
[2025-11-16 12:23 PM] rsulfuratus: right, i don't love legend lore once per 7 days. but the bastion ability once per 7 day is a lot weaker, the vibe is basically a magical way to know what parts of this myth i'm writing down are actually true
[2025-11-16 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: it could only apply to stories and myths, that type of thing
[2025-11-16 12:25 PM] Deciusmus: (Going shopping more in a bit)
[2025-11-16 01:28 PM] rsulfuratus: made a few tweaks to finnan and added equipment
[2025-11-16 01:29 PM] rsulfuratus: planning on adding kenku to D&D beyond sometime this afternoon or evening; you should be able to change the species for the two kenku
[2025-11-16 01:33 PM] Deciusmus: Here is a tweaked version of the ring:
    
    5 charges: You learn the lore of a person, place, or thing. 
    
    You can expend 5 charges from the ring to learn three facts about:
    * a place you have slept
    * a creature you have fed or hunted
    * a sentient creature you have talked to
    * an object you have touched
    
    These facts are true, but random. If you want to learn something in particular, you can try to guide the ring towards a specific answer. Make a Charisma saving throw, against DC 13. 
    
    Fail the save by >`5: you learn only a single fact.
    Fail the save: you learn 3 facts as if you hadn't tried
    Beat the save: one of the facts answers your question
    Beat the save by >`=5: two facts answer your question
    Beat the save by >`=10: all three facts answer your question
    
    Might be a little too complicated.
[2025-11-16 01:34 PM] Deciusmus: I think it probably works better to limit it somewhat as to what it can do and take away any mechanic that prevents Finnan from using it every day.
[2025-11-16 01:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i think "true but random" is fine, the guiding it to a specific thing is probably not needed
[2025-11-16 01:35 PM] Deciusmus: yeah
[2025-11-16 01:35 PM] Deciusmus: I might tweak to let it function as _identify_ when used on a magic item, either instead of 3 facts, or as 1 of the facts
[2025-11-16 01:36 PM] Deciusmus: I don't think the party currently has any way to identify magic items unless you took identify as a spell
[2025-11-16 01:36 PM] rsulfuratus: no. i took detect magic but not identify. i'd just make it you can cast identify or learn three facts
[2025-11-16 01:36 PM] Deciusmus: yeah
[2025-11-16 02:05 PM] Deciusmus: https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/10853169-ring-of-lore
[2025-11-16 05:28 PM] Deciusmus: I was randomly looking at your addermarch stuff... 
    
    There is an interesting thread between the orb of making zombies under cleenseau and the serpertine axe stuff from Avatus. Was it your idea that these are related or was it totally random that they kinda have the same vibe?
[2025-11-16 05:35 PM] rsulfuratus: i haven't decided yet
[2025-11-16 05:41 PM] rsulfuratus: actually running now but i have some thoughts i'll push later tonight
[2025-11-16 08:21 PM] rsulfuratus: going to go help Kate with Jrain's narrative proficiencies and equipment in about 10 minutes but here is the basic idea for the cursed axe.
[2025-11-16 08:22 PM] rsulfuratus: the vibe is that Avatus gave his lieutanents some kind of magic weapons, probably developed in some way by the same court wizard who made the mirror of soul trapping and was obviously powerful
[2025-11-16 08:22 PM] rsulfuratus: his armies made it into western addermarch, and there were a bunch of skirmishes and maybe battles
[2025-11-16 08:22 PM] rsulfuratus: possibly even there were some avatus forts in the area - haven't quite figured out the timeline
[2025-11-16 08:23 PM] rsulfuratus: then when people find the cursed weapons now, it drives them crazy and they attack their friends
[2025-11-16 08:23 PM] rsulfuratus: before our next session i have to figure out the exact details of avatus's control in addermarch because they are looking for old battle sites to try to figure out what is going on
[2025-11-16 08:26 PM] rsulfuratus: i don't think i actually remember the details of the orb of making zombies
[2025-11-16 08:27 PM] rsulfuratus: but the way they are related is potentially connected to the larger idea that one of the things that powered avatus' ascent to power and strength of arms was this hobgoblin court wizard who was a very powerful artificer - already established from the dunmar campaign - which i think my intention is gives avatus' armies kind of a creepy evil magic vibe
[2025-11-16 08:32 PM] rsulfuratus: the other potential thread currently left unexplored is whether there is a reason for why several of these cursed items have turned up in the same time frame.  maybe the lich is messing with avatus' lost artifacts and the addermarch stuff is kind of an early test/exploration? although i don't necessarily want to connect to the lich directly.
[2025-11-16 08:32 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway, going to do D&D stuff with kate now but will be online later
[2025-11-16 08:42 PM] Deciusmus: The Cleenseau connection is:
    
    Underneath Cleenseau was an old fort, build during Avatus' expansion north, but ruined.  There was an odd green orb underneath the fort that, when activated, caused a curse to radiate from it that could make zombies, although it was weak and relatively easy to resist.
    
    This curse was picked up by rats and then spread to Cleenseau where it particularly hit kids
[2025-11-16 08:43 PM] Deciusmus: The actual mechanic was that the undead awakening spell awakened one of Avatus' lieuntants  who awakened as a wight and reactivated the orb in a sort of recreation of his job in life
[2025-11-16 08:44 PM] Deciusmus: The lich had no idea it was under there and didn't plan it specifically.
[2025-11-16 08:52 PM] Deciusmus: Btw, here is my idea for an item for Jrain:
    
    A cloak of black raven feathers (or some other bird feather that appeals to Kate). When wearing it, your steps are lifted and walking is easy.
    
    You ignore Difficult Terrain created by any obstacle on the ground.
    
    Additionally, the cloak has 2 charges. You can expend a charge to cast levitate on yourself. Alternatively, you can expend a charge and toss your cloak over your beast companion, granting it invisibility (as the spell).
[2025-11-16 09:31 PM] rsulfuratus: kate likes it
[2025-11-16 09:32 PM] rsulfuratus: kate says gray owl feathers
[2025-11-16 09:33 PM] rsulfuratus: re: cleenseau / avatus - i did not realize it was also vibed as a green gem but i think it would make sense to assume this is connected somehow to magic of the court wizard of avatus
[2025-11-16 09:35 PM] Deciusmus: I will add to D&D beyond tomorrow

