# Discord DM – 2025-11-03

[2025-11-03 10:03 AM] rsulfuratus: pushed commits that hit tons of files recently - incorporating more one note old notes. had to fix a ton of broken long links `[[People/PCs/Dunmar Fellowship/Delwath]]` instead of `[[Delwath]]` because i forgot to uniquify names first
[2025-11-03 08:24 PM] Deciusmus: Do you have any thoughts about a one shot character btw?
[2025-11-03 09:21 PM] Deciusmus: re: kobolds:
    
    this is pretty aligned with your vibes, right?
    
    The general group around Krauzeth consists of three factions of kobold:
    
    faction A: fiercely loyal to Vraedhul and sees themselves as the guardians of her spawn, will do anything to see him restored and not convinced that she is dead. Leader Tizzit, older matriach, spellcaster. Swore to protect Krauzeth and restore him to his rightful place to Vraedhul as she fled. Has 6 loyal followers.
    
    faction B: "new men" who are loyal to Krauzeth himself, more interested in loot and safety than restoring the glory of Vraedhul. Leader Krizik, one of three warriors who have pledged themselves to Krauzeth. Individually the three strongest warriors, all three believe Krauzeth is destined for greatness and will do whatever he says. 
    
    faction C: the disillusioned, those who would prefer to slink off into the highlands and make their own way, but too scared of Krauzeth to do so. Leader Drubgrak and Vikka, sisters, plus the remaining three kobolds. Drubgrak has wings and believes it is a sign of her wisdom, and will not heed other's advice.
[2025-11-03 09:23 PM] Deciusmus: also for Addermarch:
    
    To the west is the smallholds of eastern Addermarch, under the control of the Earl of the Highlands, Rhiannon de Vaux (ree-AN-on de VOH). Krauzeth has been raiding here, mostly for food, taking both people and animals. He has destroyed three villages, and raided two others, and the Earl's first attempt to drive him back was a total failure and cost her sixty soldiers.
[2025-11-03 09:23 PM] Deciusmus: I stole the name from one of your dm_note addermarch NPC name lists
[2025-11-03 10:23 PM] rsulfuratus: kobold vibes are great
[2025-11-03 10:24 PM] rsulfuratus: let me revisit earl names (i like Rhiannon but not sure about Earl of the Highlands) in the next 24 hours. vibes of eastern Addermarch are good
[2025-11-03 10:25 PM] rsulfuratus: i think you had a comment about Earl names in the addermarch doc
[2025-11-03 10:25 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe. I didn’t review the naming carefully
[2025-11-03 10:27 PM] rsulfuratus: what time of year in your game again? the other detail would be that i think a lot of the shepherds and cattle farmers of eastern addermarch would have some kind of scottish highland transhumanence. so the vibe might be more / also about lots of cattle being taken from the high pastures
[2025-11-03 10:27 PM] Deciusmus: I’m also working on some ideas for how the Tyrwinghan army might be somewhat differently organized. PCs will approach the dragon from either the Tyrwingha side, with a launching point of the Aben garrison of the army of mostreve or the addermarch side, with some interaction with the earl - or perhaps from the highlands stopping at neither place - but trying to prep both possibilities
[2025-11-03 10:27 PM] Deciusmus: This is July 1720
[2025-11-03 10:27 PM] Deciusmus: so yeah a lot of cattle raids maybe
[2025-11-03 10:28 PM] rsulfuratus: right so at that time the animals will all be on high pastures and a lot of villages half-empty
[2025-11-03 10:28 PM] rsulfuratus: this is kind of my sense of the vibe: https://scarf.scot/national/scarf-modern-panel-report/modern-case-studies/case-study-transhumance-and-shielings/
[2025-11-03 10:29 PM] rsulfuratus: https://www.theshielingcollective.com/what-is-a-shieling
[2025-11-03 10:29 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure it is documented but i've always thought of addermarch as more sheep in the west, more cattle in the east.
[2025-11-03 10:30 PM] Deciusmus: That works perfectly, the dragon is probably raiding cattle pretty heavily - although I suppose dragons eat a kinda unrealistic/magical diet
[2025-11-03 10:30 PM] rsulfuratus: right but they probably like killing cattle
[2025-11-03 10:31 PM] Deciusmus: But I imagine Krauzeth as kinda into roasted cattle and holding  feasts for his kobolds
[2025-11-03 10:31 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that is a good vibe
[2025-11-03 10:32 PM] Deciusmus: But he is also probably getting frustrated at the lack of gold - I imagine the region as pretty poor. But upland Tyrwingha is as well.
[2025-11-03 10:34 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah - definitely the poorest region in addermarch
[2025-11-03 10:34 PM] rsulfuratus: probably by a fair bit

