# Discord DM – 2025-11-05

[2025-11-05 08:52 AM] rsulfuratus: started to do a little reorg about worldbuidling before i start working.
    
    Q1: is there a point to the tentative directory? 
    
    i would be inclined to just have brainstorming for anything that is noodling about ideas/background/meta stuff, and for places/people/things that might or might not exist. and then put anything that canonically exists but has a page that is not ready for the main vault in staging. i think this can be a mix of blank pages, or pages with unorganized notes. the key thing is this should be one of descriptive tags that aren't meta or background, so a concrete thing. 
    
    i like having staging as a place for definite things that are underbaked. 
    
    i do think this implies organizing a little is useful. 
    
    Q2: should worldbuilding/campaigns exist? 
    
    the only real distinction between this and DM notes is that the worldbuilding/campaigns is oriented slightly more towards player-facing stuff (especially for Great War, where we don't really have dm notes that survive in digital form anyway). but this distinction is probably kind of irrelevant for things that aren't canon anyway.
[2025-11-05 08:54 AM] rsulfuratus: Q3: should staging be better organized, and if so how?
[2025-11-05 08:55 AM] rsulfuratus: it might not really matter, except insofar as it is kind of a task list if i'm idly cleaning up notes, e.g. seeing a list of the addermarch stubs is kind of useful. but the overhead of moving files around may not be worth the benefit and it is sometimes unclear where a staging note comes from. it is also easy to make work pages with things like "staging notes linked from dunmar session notes" and the like which might be more flexible than organizing staging itsefl
[2025-11-05 11:11 AM] Deciusmus: In general I would say:
[2025-11-05 11:15 AM] Deciusmus: **Staging**
    Staging is really valuable for "people/places/organizations/things" that exist, i.e. are linked from some canonical page, but that lack details. A page that is in staging is valid to be 100% empty or just have some basic `%%` notes.
    
    General rules for staging:
    * Don't add stuff that isn't linked from somewhere else,  i.e. this isn't the place for "tentative" NPCs that are not necessarily real
    * Exception: NPCs or places that are introduced in game but that are not documented in session notes, but in that case, really useful to add a backlink to the session note, even if it is just `%%` PCs met: [[blah blah]] `%%`
    * Anyone can move any file from staging to the proper place by adding sensible metadata, a status/stub tag, and a status/check/name (staging files don't necessarily have canonical names)
    * Staging notes that get updates more than just metadata should get a status/check/(whoever created it) to confirm the details instead of status/stub
    * Places that definitely exist, i.e. because they are on the map, but which have ill-defined character, are also valid in staging. 
    * Exception: Some places are mapped but whether the map is truly canonical is unclear. This tends to be places like the "Sayanua" islands or some parts of the mariner trade penisula region, where there might be a mountain range drawn, but there is no reason to assume the map must be canonical. These really should be documented perhaps in a special directory in worldbuilding.
[2025-11-05 11:23 AM] Deciusmus: **Worldbuilding/Brainstorming**
    This is where random scratch notes go, and can be organized however anyone wants. 
    
    **_DM_notes/Campaign**
    This is another random scratch area.
    
    What is the difference between Worldbuilding and DM Notes? 
    Answer: Worldbuilding is a _shared_ workspace. The implication of putting something in worldbuilding is you want feedback, open to changes, someone else should consider using it, etc. It might not be fully canon but it is intended to be shared. DM Notes is more of a private workspace. Not a bad thing to mine for vibes and such, but is actually mostly shared to provide the git-backup features than to truly be cross-DM.
[2025-11-05 11:32 AM] rsulfuratus: right, i think this for staging is good and this is mostly how i've used it. also agree that things like "NPC ideas - Addermarch" belong in `_dm_notes/_Addermarch` and "NPC ideas - Mawar - Not Used" probably belong in `Worldbuilding/Brainstorming` if worth keeping
[2025-11-05 11:33 AM] Deciusmus: So I think I'd suggest, in general:
    **Worldbuilding**
    
    * Worldbuilding/Staging. Flat list of files. Used primarily to assign potential names to canonical things. Should only contain things that canonically exist. Anyone can move to right spot with correct metadata. Moved files should get status/check/name at minimal (for world-level stuff), and status/check/(author) if the move includes writing the page (otherwise, status/stub).
    * Worldbuilding/Tenative. Flat list of files. Used *only* to document things that are referenced by other notes, or the map, but which are _explicitly not canonical_. It is intended mostly for "map" level features that may or may not actually exist.
    
    Plus a light re-org of the other folders:
    * Worldbuilding/Brainstorming. Dumping ground for shared worldbuilding brainstorming. Undefined internal organization.
    * Worldbuilding/Chats and Emails. Raw material/chats. Should ideally have a file prefix like Email, Discord, or GDrive.
    * Worldbuilding/Old Documents. Dumping ground for most-likely superceded stuff that is still interesting to preserve. Undefined internal organization. Good place for i.e. old Great War stuff or pre-Dunmari Frontier DM Notes
    * Worldbuilding/Talk. Like wiki-talk pages. Places to track questions/discsusions/etc. Merge of Open Questions and DIscussions
    * Worldbuilding/Research and Mechanics. out-of-world documents gathering either research/summarization (i.e. travel times) or game rules. 
    
    This removes Worldbuilding/Campaigns.
    
    **_DM_Notes_**
    One folder for each campaign or series. Undefined internal organization.
[2025-11-05 11:34 AM] rsulfuratus: the one thing i'm not sure about here is something like my note on Morlaith
[2025-11-05 11:35 AM] rsulfuratus: it is addermarch, but also will very likely be relevant to your fey arc when it happens
[2025-11-05 11:35 AM] rsulfuratus: at some point this should move to the main gazetteer but right now it is not fleshed out enough
[2025-11-05 11:35 AM] rsulfuratus: so i guess staging?
[2025-11-05 11:35 AM] Deciusmus: Morliath is canonical. It belongs either in staging or main
[2025-11-05 11:35 AM] Deciusmus: this is just a dm_notes: important, dm_owner: tim regular page to me
[2025-11-05 11:36 AM] rsulfuratus: right, i guess i can just wrap all the text in comments and dump it in main
[2025-11-05 11:36 AM] Deciusmus: exactly
[2025-11-05 11:37 AM] Deciusmus: or write a 1 sentence canon ("Morliath is an ancient fey lord who was ruled a domain for time immemorial. The people of Addermarch alternatively fear and placate him.") or whatever and then dump the rest in `%%`
[2025-11-05 11:37 AM] Deciusmus: I think, in general, we should prefer canonical, introduced in play or otherwise definitely known to exist people/places/items/things to be in the main gazeteer/people/etc sections, using are normal status tags + dm notes structure with `%%` text as much as possible
[2025-11-05 11:38 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i think staging is really a work list not a permanent home for anything
[2025-11-05 11:38 AM] Deciusmus: In an idealized world, every page in worldbuilding refers to a concept/place/person/etc that may or may not exist
[2025-11-05 11:39 AM] Deciusmus: staging is just the worklist to track, as we've found a lot of benefit in having a blank page, for name dup and reference tracking, rather than just uncreated links
[2025-11-05 11:40 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm going to move `Caerwyn of Abenfyrd` to `Tentative`, move the entire Great War campaign directory in worldbuilding to Old Documents, and move the Ausson's Crossing directory in Worldbuilding to your ausson's crosing dm notes directory
[2025-11-05 11:40 AM] rsulfuratus: then could delete worldbuilding/campaigns
[2025-11-05 11:43 AM] rsulfuratus: also added some dataview tables in a `Pages in Staging` `_MoC note to function as work lists
[2025-11-05 11:46 AM] rsulfuratus: what do you think about removing things in Worldbuilding from the Pages that Need Review. it seems useful to have a separate page for needs review - in vault and needs review - in worldbuliding/staging
[2025-11-05 11:46 AM] Deciusmus: Makes sense
[2025-11-05 11:46 AM] Deciusmus: Although I actually think it is an error to have a page in staging with a status/check tag at all…
[2025-11-05 11:47 AM] rsulfuratus: it's really useful to have codex/copilot add a status/check/ai tag even in staging, so we know what was ai generated and needs review
[2025-11-05 11:47 AM] Deciusmus: Ah
[2025-11-05 11:47 AM] Deciusmus: Yes
[2025-11-05 09:22 PM] Deciusmus: do you think the moon has always existing? was it creating during the riving? has it changed in character, i.e. is the whole idea of it being a prison a post-riving thing?

