# Discord DM – 2025-11-07

[2025-11-07 12:04 AM] Deciusmus: what do you think of Kemeko as the name of the monastery?  or Kamaku or Aerakshu or Ayrmako
[2025-11-07 12:04 AM] rsulfuratus: i like either of the K ones
[2025-11-07 12:05 AM] Deciusmus: yeah Kemeko was my top choice
[2025-11-07 12:19 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed an update to creating new species with some tweaks to reflect updated metaphysics. working to actually finish the "playing an XXXX" and get it pushed to taelgarverse to aid in these short adventures where people make new characters
[2025-11-07 01:53 PM] rsulfuratus: working a little more on and off in 20 minute chunks between meetings. one fundamental rework that i am contemplating is making a major distinction between what I might call "single origin" species and "multiple origin" species. 
    
    i'm not sure what good terminology is, or if we need good terminology. but i think the distinction solves a lot of issues in that it makes it possible to have a diversity of creatures while keeping the worldbuliding implications contained. 
    
    the fundamental distinction is: a single origin species is a  creature that has a single origin and a unique creation story. every single extant member of that species either arose at that time of creation, or descends from a creature that existed at that time. i think this has key implications, in that a single origin species has cultural continuity and room for cultural evolution. 
    
    a multiple origin species, in contrast, can at least potentially be created repeated. undead would be the classic example, in that undead cannot reproduce so they can only be created by repeated origins. but i think this also fits for tons of other sapient monsters and allies - medusa, minotaurs, gnolls, giant eagles, lycanthropes, and many others all make the most sense as creatures that can be at least occasionally created, and in some cases can only arise through creation. 
    
    my default would be to assume that most sapient magical creatures fall into the second category. taelgar is a magical world and things happen. but just because you met a minotaur doesn't imply in comes from a long line of minotaurs going back thousands of years to a long-ago minotaur ancestor who was created in a specific describable moment.
[2025-11-07 01:56 PM] rsulfuratus: i still haven't quite locked in the terminology, and i'm less certain what to do with natives of other planes, e.g. does this make sense as a distinction for elementals too? or fey? i can kind of see it making sense there too, in the sense that say djinn have culture and continuity whereas air elementals don't and can just be created from the fundamental esssence of the plane
[2025-11-07 01:57 PM] rsulfuratus: but it is harder to sort out outside the material plane because we don't have a good idea how non-material-plane natives are created
[2025-11-07 01:57 PM] rsulfuratus: (well i guess specifically fey and elementals - outer planes natives are maybe a little clearer in some ways)
[2025-11-07 01:58 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway have to jump on a call in a few minutes but might continue to work a little on updates to obsidian to reflect this if i don't really need to listen. but likely won't have bandwidth to reply to any thoughts until 4 pm or so
[2025-11-07 01:58 PM] Deciusmus: I think metaphysically it is kinda sensible but I'm not sure what problem this is solving
[2025-11-07 02:00 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess the problem is that i like using diverse d&d creatures in a variety of contexts and want a way to introduce, say, a minotaur for an adventure without needing to make up a lot of worldbuliding about minotaur culture
[2025-11-07 02:01 PM] rsulfuratus: or like where did manticores come from?
[2025-11-07 02:01 PM] rsulfuratus: there are a bunch of things like that that get used once or repeatly which i want to explicitly avoid promoting to an "unusual species" with a non-standard creation backstory
[2025-11-07 02:02 PM] Deciusmus: right, ok. so it is less a PC-player race problem and more a "hey I used harpies or minotaurs or bullywugs in a game, does that mean they have to have a whole complicated backstory now"?
[2025-11-07 02:03 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, exactly. but also it helps conceptualize what separates playable species from the unwashed masses, so to speak
[2025-11-07 02:11 PM] Deciusmus: I would be inclined to lean more strongly into the distinction between souled and unsouled creatures, actually, with the idea that sapience and a "taelgar soul" are not remotely the same thing
[2025-11-07 02:13 PM] rsulfuratus: i found this creates a ton of problems. if you lean into it hard, it creates a vibe i'm not sure i like where there is a category difference between souled and not-souled things that might superficially seem similar that i'm not sure i like the worldbuilding implications of. what are the implications of not having a soul on morality
[2025-11-07 02:13 PM] rsulfuratus: if you don't lean hard into it, it is kind of a meaningless metaphysical noodling
[2025-11-07 02:13 PM] Deciusmus: (writing a longer answer...)
[2025-11-07 02:16 PM] Deciusmus: If you go back to basic cosmology, the idea is something like...
    
    Before the Riving, the fundamental order of the multiverse was shaped by three fundamental forces: matter, magic, and soulstuff. 
    
    At the time of the Riving, this was separated, in some fashion - and resulted in the Spiritual Realms, made of soul stuff and the inner realms and their echos, made of matter infused via the plane of magic with varying degrees of magic
[2025-11-07 02:18 PM] Deciusmus: with the Land of the Dead as some kind of boundary, and the plane of souls, the plane of magic, the astral plane, and the ethereal plane as kinda "special cases"
[2025-11-07 02:18 PM] Deciusmus: Then, posit that _magic_, _soul stuff_ and _matter_ are all sources of sentience.
[2025-11-07 02:19 PM] Deciusmus: But effectively they are all co-equal. Souls are not related to morality or the traditional idea in Earth religions that the soul is the locus of goodness or whatever
[2025-11-07 02:19 PM] Deciusmus: After all, plenty of people on real Earth are moral without souls.
[2025-11-07 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: Why can't it be that sapience can equally come from:
    * matter and biology (brain)
    * Soulstuff
    * magic
    ?
[2025-11-07 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: and the metaphysical distinction is entirely about death, not life
[2025-11-07 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: It I guess causes a bit of a problem for hobgoblins
[2025-11-07 02:21 PM] rsulfuratus: so, that might be possible with some revisions to hobgoblin lore, or some creative worldbuilding. my fundamental issue isn't that it doesn't work, it is that there are a number of strains of worldbuliding that work to establish absence of the divine as more or less evil.
[2025-11-07 02:21 PM] Deciusmus: Are there a number of strains, or it is just hogboblins?
[2025-11-07 02:22 PM] rsulfuratus: i think undead fall into this a bit, although that could be more just the ick factor for mindless undead
[2025-11-07 02:22 PM] Deciusmus: Well, mindless undead are "evil" because they are animated by something bad, right?
[2025-11-07 02:23 PM] Deciusmus: I guess there is a question - is a lich intrisincally evil? but if to become a lich requires mass murder, does it matter?
[2025-11-07 02:23 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, right, i think hobgoblins are the most serious issue.
[2025-11-07 02:23 PM] rsulfuratus: i have an in person meeting in a few minutes so will have to contiue this later
[2025-11-07 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: but there is also imo just kind of a general reluctance to establish soul stuff as this kind of fundamenta piece of magic and then have the basic "you don't have a soul" line of reasoning for "outsiders" to fundamentally be true if that makes sense
[2025-11-07 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: i mean even if it is not true that soulstuff is "superior" it feels tricky to navigate to me
[2025-11-07 02:25 PM] rsulfuratus: like what is stopping human religions from preaching about racial superiorty, except some kind of heavy handed "the gods don't like it so those people don't get divine power"
[2025-11-07 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: (there is a side point about resurrection magic - can a fey PC be revivified? or a fey non-PC?)
[2025-11-07 02:27 PM] rsulfuratus: (i'm not sure it came up in game ever but i'm not sure i'm okay with the game mechanical implications of only a subset of sapient beings being revivable - although this could be handled by changing the mechanics of the spells instead of the metaphysics, i guess)
[2025-11-07 02:28 PM] rsulfuratus: so it feels like there is a very strong tension if the metaphysics of death ->` land of the dead ->` something beyond being restricted to "souled" beings (though the "something beyond" being restricted makes more sense)
[2025-11-07 02:29 PM] rsulfuratus: in any case - more later - but i think the implications are very strong of leaning into this and cascade through a lot of both worldbuliding and game mechanics, and i'm not sold i like the implications on either side. even though i think the basic idea is sound and would be consistent with taelgarian metaphysics as established so far
[2025-11-07 02:33 PM] rsulfuratus: adding one more thing because my 2:30 meeting is late - i'm also not sure what the implications are for the plane of souls and for related things. are fey unable to travel to the astral plane? if a fey wizard casts astral projection, does nothing happen? if you go to the plane of souls and look around for manticore souls do you just find nothing? does this have any meaningful implications, and if not does that mean the plane of souls is kind of pointless/shoudn't really exist or at least doesn't have any meaningful impact on anything?
[2025-11-07 02:34 PM] rsulfuratus: the vibe of both kyr's aura sense and kenzo's soul sight suggests strongly that nearly all sentient beings have some kind of representation on the plane of souls
[2025-11-07 02:34 PM] rsulfuratus: that could theoretically be retconned....
[2025-11-07 02:35 PM] Deciusmus: I guess my concern is a bit of the opposite - if everything has a soul, what does that mean for the divine realms and the whole metaphysics of the outer planes and the land of the dead
[2025-11-07 02:35 PM] rsulfuratus: now my meeting is here
[2025-11-07 02:35 PM] rsulfuratus: so more later
[2025-11-07 02:37 PM] Deciusmus: A few disjointed thoughts for after your meeting....
    
    I think there is a tension between the worldbuilding and the game mechanics that is hard to square. It does feel a bit off to say that a fey PC cannot be resurrected. On the other hand, if everything has a soul, why didn't someone just cast True Resserection to bring Cha'mutte back? How is it that powerful dragons ever die, or powerful fey?
[2025-11-07 02:39 PM] Deciusmus: There is this subtle assumption in D&D games that the enemies just rarely have resurrection magic, except when it makes for a cool plot. But of course from purist worldbuilding perspective resurrection magic is a bit of a problem because it is hard to explain why powerful people ever die.
[2025-11-07 02:41 PM] Deciusmus: In general, I think with a lot of magical effects there is a tension between worldbuilding and playability.  But the D&D magic is a slipshod mess based entirely around what is fun to play. PCs have huge amounts of mystical / magical ability with no consistency or thought as to how they work.
    
    To me, it seems easier to build a consistent cosmology and then ignore the D&D powers and just come up with one-off explanations
[2025-11-07 02:42 PM] Deciusmus: i.e. there is no such thing as "soul sight" as some kind of ability to see other creature's souls on the plane of consciousness (and really, I'm not sure Kenzo's power ever really felt in game like he was peaking into another plane)
[2025-11-07 02:43 PM] Deciusmus: rather, Kenzo is magical. What fuels Kenzo's magic? Probably the strength of his soulstuff which is a useful source of "self-generated" magic. But that doesn't mean he is perceiving other creatures souls
[2025-11-07 02:44 PM] Deciusmus: On the other hand, maybe some paladin really does have the ability to perceive the shape of someone's soul, which works as kinda  a detect evil / detect fiend / detect good type of effect.
[2025-11-07 02:47 PM] Deciusmus: As far as this, I think it is overindexing on fey a bit. Fey are clearly a unique thing that needs a bit of thought, as important players in many different campaigns and worthy of a proper metaphysical treatment. But manticores? It feels to me a lot easier actually to say that manticores and harpies and ogres and trolls and some type of evil tree thing and whatever else anyone wants to use are all, basically, "sentient by way of magic" and therefore have no gods, no divinity, no resurrection, and no souls
[2025-11-07 02:47 PM] Deciusmus: I think that line-drawing is what makes the metaphysics and cosmology unique. If everything has soulstuff it feels to me more like "whats the point" then if it is a unique thing with specific meaning
[2025-11-07 02:53 PM] Deciusmus: I do think to push in a direction where the only things with soulstuff are humans / elves / dwarves / halflings / stoneborn / lizardfolk / orcs / kenku / merfolk 
    
    Plus maybe centaurs / kobolds / goblins
    
    Plus any native of the outer realms
    
    Requires solving two specific problems:
    1. Hobgoblins. The vibe of "no soul" = "no gods" = "bad" has been useful, but kinda falls apart if lots of things have no soul.
    2. Fey. Fey need some type of metaphysics that makes them playable, probably. 
    
    And then untangling the connection between "soulstuff" / "divinity" / "plane of souls" / "plane of creation"
[2025-11-07 02:54 PM] Deciusmus: Hrm...
[2025-11-07 03:17 PM] Deciusmus: What about this alternative idea....
    
    There are three fundamental things in Taelgar: matter, soulstuff, magic. Two of them (magic and soulstuff) are fundamentally "magical" and can cause unexpected/magical type effects.
    
    Magic ultimately comes from the plane of magic and the ur-source of all magical energy is the plane of magic.
    
    But soulstuff isn't like that. Although the plane of creation is made of dense soulstuff, soulstuff is actually something deeply embedded in the fabric of the multiverse, and _any_ sapient being accretes soulstuff from the fabric of the multiverse. The Divine Presence is just a really really sapient being and the plane of creation is sorta the densely accreted soulstuff of the Divine Presence.
    
    That said, accreting soulstuff isn't the only way you get it - it can also be channeled at birth into you, from an outside source.
[2025-11-07 03:17 PM] Deciusmus: Or, you can be made up of soulstuff, instrinsically
[2025-11-07 03:19 PM] Deciusmus: So you end up with 3 types of sentient creatures:
    * Those who _receive_ soulstuff via a divine presense
    * Those who _accrete_ soulstuff via life
    * Those without soulstuff at all
    
    But not having soulstuff in this world means fundamentally not having a connection to the multiverse in a way that really does produce bad outcomes. Hobgoblins are not "born without souls" - instead, the magic of their creation by the Void Mind means they _actively repel_ soulstuff
[2025-11-07 03:19 PM] Deciusmus: So they can't accrete it over life.
[2025-11-07 03:20 PM] Deciusmus: Many undead probably also don't have soulstuff, either because they destroyed their own soulstuff to gain a different sort of magic power, or because they  are unthinking undead. But maybe some undead do have soulstuff, they have just severed it from its source
[2025-11-07 03:21 PM] Deciusmus: Some magical constructs (golems, dancing swords) also don't have soulstuff, which makes them very robotic, the simulation of sentient rather than actually being sentient
[2025-11-07 03:26 PM] Deciusmus: So then what is the difference between receiving and accreting soul stuff?
    
    Fundmentally, those who receive soulstuff have an immortal soul that returns back to their creator when it is no longer tethered by an active consciousness to an inner realm.
    
    Those who accrete soulstuff, the accretion returns to the multiverse on death, although perhaps with a few edge cases where a ghost lingers or something.
    
    Fundamentally, this would mean that, although in theory anyone can worship gods, only those who receive soulstuff can usually access divine power and divine magic. It is the pathway of the receiving that allows access to the magic of the plane of creation.
    
    Also, it means that only those who receive soulstuff have a life-after-death, and therefore resurrection magic is trickier if you don't have soulstuff that you received from a god. 
    
    But it probably still takes a little bit of time for any accreted soul to fade, meaning there probably is always a short window when one who doesn't receive soulstuff can be resurrected. But certainly a true resurrection spell cast 10 years after someone died would fail.
[2025-11-07 03:29 PM] Deciusmus: The other idea is that soulstuff is magical. And therefore soulstuff becomes the key source of a vast array of magical effects.
    
    How does a red dragon breath fire or fly? They are channeling the strength of their accreted soul stuff. 
    
    Same with most PC powers.
[2025-11-07 03:31 PM] Deciusmus: So then magic is, basically, either
    * Pulled from the plane of magic (arcane spells)
    * Pulled, via the conduit of your own soul, from a divinity (divine spells)
    * From yourself, your own strength of soul
    
    Doesn't solve the metaphysics of druids and ranger spellcasting, and it doesn't fully explain how fey and elemental inner-realm magic works
[2025-11-07 03:32 PM] Deciusmus: But it makes for a neat distinction, i.e. dispel magic or counterspell only works on things you are pulling - this is why you can't cast counterspell to stop a dragon breath or dispel magic to make a beholder no longer able to fly
[2025-11-07 04:05 PM] rsulfuratus: meeting over. 
    
    this is basically a more fleshed out and coherent version of what i was working towards in the Creating New Creatures doc
[2025-11-07 04:10 PM] rsulfuratus: this is also coherent with some kind of ancient ideas about fundamental metaphysics that have always pointed to the "plane of creation/divinity" and the "plane of magic" as the two fundamental origins of magic in the multiverse
[2025-11-07 04:12 PM] rsulfuratus: actually just thinking a bit more - you could extend this to say that the material plane is the place where magic and soulstuff are balanced, and the riving is basically all about creating this balance. 
    
    it also works with planar tides, if the moon is somehow about shifting the relative balance of soulstuff and magic. only very slightly of course
[2025-11-07 04:13 PM] rsulfuratus: i think there are actually many elementals of taelgarian metaphysics that kind of click into place if you think about the material plane this way. and even you could imagine that the feywild and the material plane form a dual layer where the material plane is just ever so slightly closer to soulstuff, and the feywild is just ever so slightly closer to magic
[2025-11-07 04:14 PM] Deciusmus: (on a call, but more in a bit)
[2025-11-07 04:32 PM] Deciusmus: I was actually thinking the vibe was a bit more like... soulstuff is everywhere. The feywild or the plane of air might have just as much soulstuff as the material plane
[2025-11-07 04:33 PM] Deciusmus: it is just that the soulstuff is leaking in from the fabric of the multiverse, rather than being directed by a will
[2025-11-07 04:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess i'm not picturing what you are imagining then. the plane of creation is at one "pole" so to speak (in some strange higher dimensional space), but the density of soulstuff is not correlated with distance from that point?
[2025-11-07 04:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i mean that is totally plausible given extraplanar physics
[2025-11-07 04:35 PM] rsulfuratus: how does the land of the dead function as the "divine curtain" or whatever then?
[2025-11-07 04:36 PM] Deciusmus: I'm imagining something like....
    
    soulstuff is like a quark or something. it is fundamentally one of the building blocks of the multiverse. all planes are in some sense imbued with soulstuff and it accretes to thinking beings.
    
    the divine presence is ultimately the original thinking being (in some very ineffible sense, not meaning the divine presence is an actual creature that thinks)
    
    so an _massive_ amount of soulstuff accretes to the divine presence, which in turn forms the plane of creation
[2025-11-07 04:37 PM] Deciusmus: and then the riving and the land of the dead and all that divide the massive pool of soulstuff that accreted to the divine presence from rest of the multiverse
[2025-11-07 04:38 PM] Deciusmus: but that doesn't mean there is no soulstuff in the fabric of the feywild, or the fabric of the plane of fire. (perhaps the plane of magic truly has no soulstuff, being sorta a metaphysical "anti-soulstuff" in a weird way)
[2025-11-07 04:38 PM] Deciusmus: but the land of the dead doesn't divide _soulstuff_ fundamentally, it divides those essences that have accreted soulstuff in such densities as to be divine
[2025-11-07 04:39 PM] Deciusmus: But that means... a fey still has a soul, but it _doesn't come from the plane of creation_, it comes from the feywild
[2025-11-07 04:40 PM] Deciusmus: For a lot of purposes, the plane of creation and the plane of magic still work as opposed forces. So the moon maybe does pull and push on them, and thus make channeling divine magic or arcane magic easier
[2025-11-07 04:41 PM] Deciusmus: But there is this third thing, the soulstuff embedded in the fabric of reality, which is uncontrollable, limitless, and accretes to (almost all) thinking things, and doesn't come from the plane of creation at all
[2025-11-07 04:43 PM] Deciusmus: The idea without being too specific about the exact metaphysical reality is to establish a source of soulstuff for the vast array of sapient creatures that isn't beyond the Land of the Dead, thus making a meaningful distinction between, basically...
    
    Creatures whose soulstuff comes from the outer realms, direct (fiends, etc)
    Creatures whose soulstuff comes from the outer realms, mediated via the land of the dead
    Creatures whose soulstuff comes from the fabric of an inner realm
[2025-11-07 04:44 PM] Deciusmus: Creatures in the first category can't die in the inner realms at all.
    Creatures in the second category have an immortal soul, and when they die in the inner realms, their immortal soul returns in some meaningful way to the outer realms, and can be recalled/ressurected
    Creatures in the third category don't have an immortal soul, at least not via the traditional Land of the Dead mechanics, and their soulstuff probably doesn't pass through the Land of the Dead at all
[2025-11-07 04:46 PM] Deciusmus: So you have neat metaphysical bucket for fire elementals, ogres, minotaurs, and manticores - they are all creaures whose soulstuff comes from one of the inner realms (plane of fire, taelgar, or an echo realm)
[2025-11-07 04:46 PM] rsulfuratus: so on a basic level i like this a lot and i think this is fundamentally what i was working to develop, but better fleshed out
[2025-11-07 04:47 PM] rsulfuratus: i think there are a few things i might tweak a little or fiddle with
[2025-11-07 04:48 PM] rsulfuratus: for one, i'm not sure that it is correct to think about the land of the dead on a fundamental metaphysical level the same way that humans in world describe it
[2025-11-07 04:48 PM] rsulfuratus: i think my point of view is that the land of the dead is really more like a semi-permable multidimensional fabric that "holds" soulstuff "apart" from matter
[2025-11-07 04:48 PM] Deciusmus: hrm
[2025-11-07 04:49 PM] Deciusmus: I dunno, I kinda like the idea that elementals and manicores and fey don't go to the land of the dead at all when they die
[2025-11-07 04:49 PM] rsulfuratus: so if you are say, a fire elemental, and you die, the soulstuff you accreted through the plane of fire would still pass through ~something~ before reuniting with the fundamental fabric of the plane
[2025-11-07 04:50 PM] rsulfuratus: this is probably not "the land of the dead" as humans describe it, and in the "river of souls" framework you probably would never see a fey soul on your "journey"
[2025-11-07 04:50 PM] Deciusmus: Right. I guess at some level it kinda doesn't matter to the framework.
[2025-11-07 04:51 PM] rsulfuratus: but there are two reasons that i kind of like the idea that there is a permeable membrane that is "land of the dead"-ish that contains "unaccreted" soulstuff
[2025-11-07 04:52 PM] Deciusmus: It could be a weird, multi-dimensional Nth order plane that filters "matter" and "soul stuff" apart or whatever. 
    
    But I think it is valuable to distinguish the "class of beings with divinities" from, in general, the "class of beings without divinities"
[2025-11-07 04:58 PM] rsulfuratus: (1) is purely justifying an idea with worldbuliding, which is that i am kind of interested in the idea of giant "religion", which might be a thing, and i think having a mechanic where certain powerful beings accumulate lots and lots of soulstuff and then become "divine-ish" is sort of interesting. giants might worship their "ancestors" as gods but they are not "gods". that is, they are unrelated to the divine presence. 
    
    i'm not totally sold on this idea but the possibility "alien divine like things" seems kind of useful to leave space for
    
    (2) i think it is useful to have the kind of vibe of a life-to-death transitionary zone potentially available for everything. for one, this makes the metaphysics of resurrection a little more straightforward - no matter what the destination (a divine realm or back into the fundamental matter of the cosmos) all sentient beings pass through a kind of drifting period where their accreted soulstuff is intact before it passes on
    
    also not totally sold, but i can see some value in simplicity here
[2025-11-07 04:58 PM] rsulfuratus: that said, i'm not sure this really matters to the current discussion and is maybe best left on the side
[2025-11-07 04:59 PM] rsulfuratus: there is another tweak, which is that i think that magic and soulstuff are maybe more paired than your original description implies
[2025-11-07 05:00 PM] rsulfuratus: that is, if you think about it like quarks, magic is also kind of a quark. it just has different properties
[2025-11-07 05:01 PM] Deciusmus: Right, I'm not sure it matters either. For giants, specifically, it seems to me there is plenty of flexibility for a couple of "unique" things. 
    
    For the life-to-death transition vibe... the question I'd ask is:
    
    Is it useful to have the default behavior for a random creature (manticores or ice trolls) be effectively, that there soul fades pretty quickly back into the material plane when they die? And therefore, a creature that has some life-to-death transition needs a special story?
[2025-11-07 05:01 PM] Deciusmus: My idea is that "divinity" is itself a bit of a misleading term
[2025-11-07 05:02 PM] rsulfuratus: so i think this ties back to my earlier point about "single origin" species
[2025-11-07 05:03 PM] Deciusmus: Effectively, any creature that has a dense and powerful enough soul starts to acquire god-like powers and immortality.
    
    What we talk about as "gods" is really a certain type of dense and powerful soul, that was molded by the Divine Presence.  But who is to say that some ancient giant hasn't accreted sufficiently powerful soulstuff to have god-like powers, all on their own?
[2025-11-07 05:04 PM] Deciusmus: Giants, for example, could be unique in that their soulstuff doesn't come from their gods
[2025-11-07 05:04 PM] rsulfuratus: to the earlier question, I agree that it is not useful to assume that the default behavior for a random creature is some extended life-to-death transition
[2025-11-07 05:05 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess the larger question then back to the species point is if the special categories of "material plane natives" are useful. eg. at one point we'd developed a typology but i wonder if it is more that there are really two kinds of sentient things:
[2025-11-07 05:07 PM] rsulfuratus: there are the sort of default creatures, which are assumed to be creatures of matter and magic in some proportion that are sentient and accrete soulstuff over their lifetime because of this sentience, which rapidly disperses when they die
[2025-11-07 05:07 PM] rsulfuratus: and there are 'unusual species' which have some other story
[2025-11-07 05:08 PM] rsulfuratus: it just happens that many of the most populous "unusual species" share some common threads
[2025-11-07 05:08 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-11-07 05:08 PM] rsulfuratus: and indeed this would probably extend to the other inner planes as well
[2025-11-07 05:09 PM] rsulfuratus: so you have a lot of elemental-ish things that are just essence of their plane, and then some "unusual species"
[2025-11-07 05:10 PM] Deciusmus: I think that works, but maybe there are actually 3 "default" creature types:
    
    * Creatures of the inner planes: creatures of matter and magic in some proportion that are sentient and accrete soulstuff over their lifetime because of this sentience, which rapidly disperses when they die
    * Creatures of the outer planes: creatures of matter and magic in some proportion that contain a soul made of the essence of their home plane, to which they return when they die
    * Constructs: creatures or monsters that are not really thinking creatures at all, but are animated by some magic which may mimic sentience. They do not have souls at all
[2025-11-07 05:11 PM] rsulfuratus: right, i was just typing the same thing
[2025-11-07 05:12 PM] rsulfuratus: although actually i think that is not quite my point. my point is that anything that has a soul with permanence is basically just an "unusual creature"
[2025-11-07 05:12 PM] rsulfuratus: and there does not need to be a typology of them
[2025-11-07 05:12 PM] rsulfuratus: that is - humans, elves, dwarves etc are all just "unusual"
[2025-11-07 05:12 PM] Deciusmus: right, yes
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] rsulfuratus: so i would phrase it like so
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] Deciusmus: humans hobgoblins elves etc don't show up in that typology above
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] rsulfuratus: ah okay i get it now
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah.
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] Deciusmus: I'm just saying ogres and fire elementals are the same thing
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] Deciusmus: metaphysically
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] Deciusmus: and say, harpies
[2025-11-07 05:13 PM] rsulfuratus: i would phrase creatures of the outer planes a bit more strongly, they are in some sense more actually made of soulstuff
[2025-11-07 05:14 PM] rsulfuratus: they don't leave behind a body when they die, for example
[2025-11-07 05:14 PM] rsulfuratus: and you can't have an undead demon
[2025-11-07 05:14 PM] Deciusmus: even though maybe the ogre is "material plane" the fire elemental "fire" and the harpy "fey"
[2025-11-07 05:14 PM] Deciusmus: yes that makes sense
[2025-11-07 05:16 PM] rsulfuratus: but yes the three default cases are basically the standard matter/magic/accrete soulstuff; native to outer planes; construct that doesn't accrete soulstuff at all and mimic sentience with magic
[2025-11-07 05:17 PM] Deciusmus: You could even imagine that there is some gravitational pull of soulstuff, some attraction it has to complexity, that almost creates weak sentience really easily.  Why are their so many monsters in Taelgar? It is in some fashion at least in part because soulstuff is everywhere and has a tendency to create life
[2025-11-07 05:17 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe that's a bit too far, and I don't think say a troll or an ogre or a manticore neccessarily needs a strong metaphyiscal where they came from
[2025-11-07 05:17 PM] rsulfuratus: right so i think this ties into the point about "single origin" and "multiple origin" species i was trying to get at before
[2025-11-07 05:18 PM] rsulfuratus: it doesn't have to be that trolls need a metaphysical source
[2025-11-07 05:18 PM] rsulfuratus: but rather, there is a large category of creatures that can potentially arise in a non-unique manner
[2025-11-07 05:18 PM] Deciusmus: Right
[2025-11-07 05:18 PM] rsulfuratus: and in general, while we might have some kinds of generic "type" pages for these if they share some common features, these don't need metaphysics
[2025-11-07 05:19 PM] Deciusmus: I actually kinda like the idea that two trolls might share nothing at all metaphysically
[2025-11-07 05:20 PM] rsulfuratus: right i think it leaves interesting space for worldbuilding and also for reskinning/variant metaphysics for adventure/story purposes
[2025-11-07 05:20 PM] Deciusmus: agreed
[2025-11-07 05:21 PM] rsulfuratus: so i actually think this leads to a totally different kind of structure for the "creating a creature" and the "species of taelgar" page
[2025-11-07 05:22 PM] Deciusmus: yes
[2025-11-07 05:22 PM] Deciusmus: on a side note, there is an interesting question about far realms creatures. Do they accrete soulstuff at all? Maybe not
[2025-11-07 05:23 PM] rsulfuratus: i think it probably varies? there does not need to be a single canonical answer
[2025-11-07 05:23 PM] Deciusmus: agreed
[2025-11-07 05:23 PM] Deciusmus: I also wonder if somewhere in here is a good metaphysical explanation for why so many of the random sentient creatures are monsters
[2025-11-07 05:24 PM] rsulfuratus: but it is a nice option for like mind flayers. they are all psionic-based anyway and maybe they think of soulstuff as like a nice tasting sauce for brains when they eat them
[2025-11-07 05:24 PM] Deciusmus: yeah I was thinking something similar
[2025-11-07 05:25 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe the Void Mind during the [[downfall wars]] successfully poisoned the fabric of the Material plane such that souls that accrete directly from the material plane specifically tend to be destructive and violent
[2025-11-07 05:26 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe there is something to that. worth keeping in mind
[2025-11-07 05:28 PM] rsulfuratus: i have to leave in 10 minutes but one last point which is that i think i am going to try to organize both species of taelgar and creating a new creature. 
    
    i think creating a new creature can be organized around metaphysics and some ideas about what needs invention and what doesn't, along with creature type translation, and other kinds of general rules about common types of unusualness. 
    
    but i think that page, and also even more so the basic species of taelgar page, needs a little thought to this idea of "what is a species".
[2025-11-07 05:29 PM] rsulfuratus: and here i'd come back to three basic factors that should come into play to define what type of page something needs
[2025-11-07 05:30 PM] rsulfuratus: (1) i think that as a general principle "natives of the outer planes" are their own thing. we don't have to decide on the metaphysics of whether they have unique origin stories or whatever but they are clearly tied to the existence of their plane in a crucial way. so they can have pages but these are separate from anything else
[2025-11-07 05:30 PM] Deciusmus: I think ultimately there is no "species" other than the unusual ones, actually
[2025-11-07 05:31 PM] rsulfuratus: (2) i think that there should be a relatively limited, but not tiny, set of creatures that we typically think of as "having a single unique origin" - these are basically what counts as "unusual species" in the above. this will likely be somewhat longer than the ~13 common species or whatever when various flavors of elementals and the like are included
[2025-11-07 05:32 PM] rsulfuratus: (3) i think there should be some notes for what you might call "common transformations" - undead, lycanthropes, maybe some other things. these are not species pages either, but they share enough features that it can be worth documenting
[2025-11-07 05:32 PM] Deciusmus: Creatures that are made up of the essence of their plane whether that is elementals, demons, trolls, or giant eagles are not really "species" in the normal sense
[2025-11-07 05:32 PM] rsulfuratus: right yes (2) is the only acutal species category
[2025-11-07 05:32 PM] rsulfuratus: but I think having a page for demons is useful in the way that having a page for trolls is probably not
[2025-11-07 05:32 PM] Deciusmus: yes
[2025-11-07 05:33 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway, more later, have to pack up now and meet kate for a drink
[2025-11-07 05:33 PM] rsulfuratus: i think this is a useful framework to refactor things into and makes thinking through "playable species" and what sets them apart a lot easier
[2025-11-07 05:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i probably won't push anything else until tomorrow but i thnk my next step is to tackle a species directory reorg, remove all the lingering "children of the riving" stuff, and establish pages with at least dm notes in all these categories to see where things are
[2025-11-07 05:35 PM] Deciusmus: I may try to write a few notes now, I have 25 minutes before I have to go and don't feel like trying to get more work done
[2025-11-07 05:35 PM] rsulfuratus: I just pushed some edits from earlier today
[2025-11-07 06:13 PM] Deciusmus: i pushed a working doc "what is a species"
[2025-11-07 06:13 PM] Deciusmus: but it is pretty incomplete

