# Discord DM – 2025-12-09

[2025-12-09 10:42 AM] rsulfuratus: pushed some in progress stuff - MoC reorg (in `_MoC/_proposed`) of which only the Note Categorization is partially done; some ideas about descriptive tags in general in Talk (not quite finished; groups/culture is tricky)
[2025-12-09 10:42 AM] rsulfuratus: bouncing in and out throughout the day so will probably push bits and pieces of stuff but likely only asynchronous/delayed ability to chat
[2025-12-09 11:38 AM] rsulfuratus: btw i added a taelgar-commits channel to taelgarverse that grabs all commits to taelgar repo using a webhook
[2025-12-09 01:31 PM] Deciusmus: dont have much time today but I skimmed what you have done so far and like the direction
[2025-12-09 01:40 PM] Deciusmus: a few quick thoughts:
    
    `**`Living Beings**.  (person|power|creature) seems clearly correct. typeOf for powers and creatures less clear. Might be worth just setting without controlled vocab and reviewing
    
    `**`Things**. I like object. I like removing all subtags. Agree that there are some problems around "specific instance of general type" vs "general type", mostly around magic items where specific pages for PC items are somewhat popular. 
    
    One place that a subtag could be useful is object/magicitem to refer specifically to a unique magic item. But I'm not sure
    
    `**`Events**. agree on proposal.
    
    `**`Secondary Tags**. Agree on removing pc and I think testcase is less useful than it was before, but if we want to keep it I'd leave it top level, which is nicer than status/testcase
    
    _Historical_. In theory there is some value here, but I think only if there is no died frontmatter. It is useful to have a way to flag someone as "definitely not alive in any active campaigns" without having to make up a died date, but now that we support died: 0001 as a flag for that, I think getting rid of historical and transitioning to died: 1 is better
    
    _Religion_.  I would keep this. It is much much simpler than trying to add an affiliation (which is the other option, I think) and any solution is going to have the problem of incompleteness. If we agree on a religion page it is possible to just work through it and set. There isn't a great way to ensure everything is set correctly but ultimately nothing is perfect and I think it is valuable enough to keep
[2025-12-09 02:32 PM] rsulfuratus: two quick things - 
    (1) will try to write this up in more detail later, but one thing is about groups. i think culture is not a great top level tag. organizations is kind of okay now though haven't looked in detail, but some things like hobgoblin clans are really more like cultures. i think either organizations should be reinterpreted broadly (any kind of association of people, so including things like culture and potentially even religion), or reinterpreted narrowly (only things that are more like associations, things you join either by birth - families - or by choice). in the latter, i'd move all the culture stuff to background.
    
    (2) potentially related to both above point and the point about religion: introducing typeOf more widely could be useful. e.g. if we used typeOf for background, we could have culture and religion as typeOf tags for background pages. then, it would be easy to autogenerate a list of pages that should have a religion tag (e.g., holy site, religion, deity, holiday) and would make the religion tag a little more maintainable
[2025-12-09 02:32 PM] rsulfuratus: but neither idea fully fleshed out and just taking a short break from work now
[2025-12-09 02:33 PM] rsulfuratus: if i do any reorg today it is likely to either be "living beings" updates or continuing with place typeOfs
[2025-12-09 02:33 PM] rsulfuratus: rest can kind of drift as a proposal
[2025-12-09 04:16 PM] rsulfuratus: doing a little place typeOf cleanup. region is actually a little squishy imo. 
    
    do you have an opinion between:
    (a) treating region as a generic typeOf for world subdivisions that are not reasonably considered realms, settlements, or neighborhoods? 
    (b) treating region as strictly a geographic term and using realm for pages that focus on human landscape at a scale larger than settlement?
    
    in (a), something like the Sembaran Borderlands would remain a region even though it is basically a page about politics
    
    in (b), something like the Sembaran Borderlands would shift to realm, as essentially a collection of realms
[2025-12-09 04:18 PM] rsulfuratus: i think (a) is a bit less friction because you don't have to think about whether a page is about human or geographic landscape
    
    but (b) is perhaps better for doing something like pulling up all the notes about Sembaran political divisions (e.g. a lot of the worldbuilding about say the border baronies might be on the borderlands page, not the individual pages, and that gets lost if borderlands is a region)
[2025-12-09 05:25 PM] rsulfuratus: have you looked at https://platers.github.io/obsidian-linter/
    
    seems like it would be useful to keep frontmatter consistently formatted, among other things. working with properties in bases is great but kind of makes things a mess
[2025-12-09 05:25 PM] Deciusmus: no, but it seems nice
[2025-12-09 05:28 PM] Deciusmus: I would almost be tempted for a bit of a middle ground...
    
    (a) if a page is specifically about a group of closely related realms, it should also be a realm
    (b) but pages about other parts of the world can stay regions
[2025-12-09 05:29 PM] Deciusmus: i.e. Zimkova might be region, whereas the Sembaran "borderlands" is probably a realm, as in that specific case it is standing in for a "duchy" page, there just isn't a borderlands duchy
[2025-12-09 05:59 PM] rsulfuratus: I think it is fine for it to be a judgement call basically
[2025-12-09 06:06 PM] Deciusmus: different topic: status/stub
    
    do you think there is any value to status/stub, or should we just move all stub pages to worldbuilding/staging and move out once not a stub?
[2025-12-09 06:10 PM] rsulfuratus: fundamentally i think it is a depreciated tag, as worldbuilding/staging replaces it, but i don't see a lot of value in doing a lot of file moves as that would just end up de-organizing things
[2025-12-09 06:11 PM] rsulfuratus: and actually there is potentially some value in that it can be useful/nice to clear out staging a bit without necessarily writing the note
[2025-12-09 06:28 PM] rsulfuratus: i did some cleanup, pushed. 
    
    there is a new view in places that has just the "cleaned" typeOfs - so far region, realm, settlement, watershed, and neighborhood.
    
    i moved a few realms / regions around. i didn't change much in sembara except moving borderlands to realm, so that might need a look
[2025-12-09 06:36 PM] rsulfuratus: working on extraplanar typeOfs:
    
    
    - `**`plane**: is used to describe pages about planes as a whole (for example, [[Feywild]] or [[Material Plane]]); these should live in Cosmology, not Gazetteer, but otherwise are treated as locations. 
    - `**`extraplanar domain**: is used to describe pages about planar regions where the character of the region is magically influenced by its ruler; the most obvious examples of these are fey realms like [[Twilight's Grace]] or [[Amberglow]], though others may exist and have not been invented yet. This would be an appropriate typeOf for a layer of the [[Abyss]], for example, if such things exist in Taeglar. 
    - `**`planar link**: is used to describe pages about specific [[Planar Connections]], most commonly portals between the Feywild and the Material Plane. 
    
    
    i think the planar link typeOf is the most obvious place where subtypeOf would be really useful, specifically for weak point, portal, and vortex
[2025-12-09 06:37 PM] Deciusmus: sure, I can see that
[2025-12-09 06:51 PM] rsulfuratus: actually - i think the correct thing to do is to just get rid of typeOfAlias and use subtypeOf for everything we use typeOfAlias for. 
    
    currently, typeOfAlias is exclusively to describe the sub category of a typeOf controlled word. 
    
    but it is a bit annoying because we'd need to update all the displayDefaults . anyway not going to do it now but given we use typeOfAlias as subcategory for everything else, going to use it as subcategory for planar link too
[2025-12-09 06:54 PM] Deciusmus: I think the difference is controlled vs uncontrolled
[2025-12-09 06:54 PM] Deciusmus: to me the logic is more like:
    
    typeOf =>` controlled vocab
    subTypeOf =>` controlled vocab
    typeOfAlias =>` uncontrolled vocab
[2025-12-09 06:55 PM] rsulfuratus: ah. but do we really ever need or want a controlled subtype vocab?
[2025-12-09 06:55 PM] Deciusmus: well, maybe? I thought you were proposing one for planer links
[2025-12-09 06:56 PM] rsulfuratus: was originally thinking that, yes, but i think it all gets a bit annoying. the key thing to me is less "is subcategory controlled" but instead "is subcategory expected for this typeOf"
    
    e.g, for planar link we always want a subcategory.
[2025-12-09 06:56 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway more later
[2025-12-09 08:13 PM] rsulfuratus: the obsidian linter isn't useful, fwiw. i might have to write a python script that cleans yaml that could just be run occasionally
[2025-12-09 08:55 PM] rsulfuratus: on the stub question. i think that status/stub is a useful tag for, e.g. "Chardonian Empire", which currently has just a few commented notes but clearl needs a real page. but i dont think status/stub is a useful tag for, e.g., Barony of Estrive which just contains a comment saying "nothing is invented"
[2025-12-09 08:56 PM] rsulfuratus: kate is working so i'm doing a little cleanup, and while i doubt i will tackle any "big" stubs i'm going to try to reduce the number by:
    - filling in metadata where it is missing
    - adding 1-2 sentences where useful to small notes
    - removing status/stub from notes like barony of estrive

