# Discord DM – 2025-12-15

[2025-12-15 10:10 AM] rsulfuratus: dumping a few thoughts on status, gameupdate, and timing issues for notes i was thinking about while walking to get coffee. have meetings from 10:30 - lunch and some emails to deal with so probably won't reply quickly.
    
    i think there are three related issues actually:
    (1) is a note complete - that is, is there more information from session events, our brains, prep notes, or other invention that is not adequately captured on a particular page. 
    (2) what is the time perspective a note is written from - that is, what year is "current" from the perspective of the note text
    (3) what should be displayed to players in different campaigns for this note 
    
    putting aside (3) for now which is a tricky problem, i think the difference between (1) and (2) can be illustrated by the sembaran army vs dunmar page. 
    
    sembaran army page is potentially complete, in the sense that no new details have been invented yet, but is written from 1720 perspective, so a game in 1750 needs to update
    
    dunmar is not complete, in that events have overtaken the information on the page, but a game in 1720 doesn't care because it is complete from a 1720 perspective. 
    
    this also relates back to dm notes, which is a marker of you could say "future completeness". 
    
    so on some level, it would be nice to capture three distinct things for each note:
    (1) whether or not the note is complete and accurate
    (2) to what extent the note is open for invention, based on the extent to which it is relevant to someone's game and/or just of interest to them
    (3) the time perspective the note is written from
    
    this of course risks generating more work and being too difficult to keep up to date, which ends up causing problems, although part of my motivation for working on the json session manifest is to automatically tag notes with gameupdate as needed
[2025-12-15 10:18 AM] rsulfuratus: anyway i'm not sure where i'm going with this exactly except that i think i have a sense that "this is complete for clee or addermarch but is written from the perspective of 1720" is different from "this does not capture recent session events"
[2025-12-15 10:19 AM] rsulfuratus: though whether it is useful to add another layer of frontmatter or something to track this is not clear (it doesn't seem like status tags would be the right approach)
[2025-12-15 10:26 AM] rsulfuratus: my 11 am and 12 pm meetings just got canceled so i might write up some thoughts in the Note Status page in `_MoC`
[2025-12-15 11:26 AM] Deciusmus: A few disjointed thoughts...
    
    (a) I think the idea of status/gameupdate/(x) is a good idea, especially if we both try to be pretty good about tagging and resolving after sessions. The implication of status/gameupdate is just - this page was impacted in some undefined way by a recent game. It is particularly important for clee and addermarch as we are not both in those games.
    
    (b) I think the idea of status/errors is very useful as a way of tagging "this page is not accurate".
[2025-12-15 11:27 AM] Deciusmus: But I think that doesn't solve the problem of time-perspective, which is likely increasingly complicated with various one-shots, multiple campaigns, etc
[2025-12-15 11:30 AM] Deciusmus: I think there are several interrelated time-perspective problems...
    
    (a) NPCs and "small" places (an inn, a village, etc). If a later campaign uses them, it sort of implies that they are not then killed/destroyed in the earlier campaign. (Although I am not sure how important small continuity errors are - for example, if I had a plot arch where killing Brot (the dwarven telescopesmith in Cleenseau) became logical, should I twist things to avoid it given they were mentioned in Dunmari Frontier?)
[2025-12-15 11:31 AM] Deciusmus: (It is easier to back-fill from Dunmari Frontier to Clee and from Clee to Addermarch, but harder to forward fill from Addermarch to Clee or Clee to Campaign 3)
[2025-12-15 11:33 AM] Deciusmus: (b) "Bigger" places or organizations that might change character over time, where the history is typically made up. For example, how limiting is it to have a history of Sembara 1720 - 1740 invented for Clee? I'm not sure it is, exactly, as I am not planning the kind of world-politics that say happened in DuFr, but still...
[2025-12-15 11:34 AM] Deciusmus: In a way, I guess, this is what DM owner is meant to call out though
[2025-12-15 12:06 PM] rsulfuratus: i got distracted with work but yeah, i think my thinking about the time perspective thing is to try to separate out the issue of "is this note complete and accurate in the context it was written" from "what's the context"
[2025-12-15 12:07 PM] rsulfuratus: i think dm owner doesn't quite capture the time perspective issue, though
[2025-12-15 12:14 PM] rsulfuratus: for example related to continuity errors - one the one hand, i think that minor continuity errors don't matter. if for example brot ended up dying in Clee, i don't think it matters because brot is not mentioned anywhere in the Dunmar session notes and really was just dropped as an easter egg for you. 
    
    however there are some people where it does matter. let's say that you run your escape from duskmire arc at some point and for whatever reason your party ends up exiting the feywild at one of the invented fey portals in addermarch, meets caradoc (the alchemist who is basically the quest giver for addermarch but has an interesting fey backstory), and travels to roscombe to stay at the inn there. 
    
    at that point, the idea would be to update the pages with a "time context" of 1720 or whatever, and maybe a note in date comments about what happened or whatever
[2025-12-15 12:15 PM] rsulfuratus: the time context then serves to flag pages where we do care about avoiding continuity errors
[2025-12-15 12:15 PM] rsulfuratus: (this doesn't solve your point (b) necessarily)
[2025-12-15 12:17 PM] Deciusmus: I am not sure this needs a global solution though. That is, I think it is easier to track all this via the text of the page than some kind of front matter, at some level.
[2025-12-15 12:18 PM] Deciusmus: For example, the Sembaran Army page...
    
    Ultimately if the page itself was updated to have something like...
    
    ## After the Hobgoblin Wars
    
    (text describing the situation after hobgoblin wars, which is what the page is now)
    
    By 1719, the following ....
    
    ## After the Undead Attacks
    
    In the wake of the undead attacks, the army was significantly reorganized, and many of the commanders who had shown excessive loyalty to Richard I were dismissed, even without any evidence they were connected to the lich.
    
    `%%`^Campaign:None`%%`
    DM Notes
    
    The idea is that...
[2025-12-15 12:18 PM] Deciusmus: then it doesn't need a "time-context" front matter
[2025-12-15 12:20 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, maybe. the only reason for frontmatter is that if a field is required it is easy to make a table of notes missing the required frontmatter so it is always present
[2025-12-15 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess for now it probably doesn't make sense to invent a new way to track this
[2025-12-15 12:25 PM] Deciusmus: this is where I was going with "newinformation" status tag
[2025-12-15 12:25 PM] Deciusmus: as a way of, at least, tracking which pages have this kind of complexity
[2025-12-15 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: right. if there ends up being a handful of gameupdate pages that are difficult to clear it might be worth some kind of additional thought here i guess
[2025-12-15 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: but i don't like a status tag, because the idea is that status tags should be temporary
[2025-12-15 12:28 PM] Deciusmus: What I mean is:
    
    the idea is that whatever the "new information" is should be captured in the page. So if Cleenseau stops at a village in Addermarch that you already invented, it might just be 
    
    `%%`^Campaign:clee`%%`
    The Heroes of CLeenseau spent two nights here on the way to ... 
    `%%`^End`%%`
    
    That is, I think, sufficient for you to realize that I used the place in my game, right? Do we need to have a way of finding places that are cross-used?
[2025-12-15 12:28 PM] rsulfuratus: ah, right. yeah, maybe it doesn't need to be searchable
[2025-12-15 12:29 PM] rsulfuratus: or anyway maybe it only needs to be text searchable
[2025-12-15 12:30 PM] Deciusmus: I actually think if we want to track i.e. npcs or minor places that are cross used, it is better to have a tag that tracks usage, rather than information status.
    
    i.e. 
    
    page-usage: `[clee, dufr]`
[2025-12-15 12:31 PM] Deciusmus: in theory, that could actually help with a lot of continuity questions and also be a way to tag something like
    
    page-usage: `[major]`
[2025-12-15 12:32 PM] Deciusmus: (where major means this is a world-level thing )
[2025-12-15 12:32 PM] Deciusmus: in reality most of the coordination problems are between clee and addermarch as we are not in both of them and they are in the same general area.
[2025-12-15 12:33 PM] Deciusmus: Cloudspinner, for example, although there are complex continuity issues is less important to capture in obsidian because I know what happened
[2025-12-15 12:33 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i think the clee / dufr coordination problems are pretty minor
[2025-12-15 12:33 PM] rsulfuratus: the biggest challenge will be explaining how to run the philosopher's guild without revealing the secret if your party ever goes to tollen in clee
[2025-12-15 12:34 PM] rsulfuratus: though i was vaguely contemplating revealing the secret by way of having the philosopher's guild be a world-level resistance organization in the cha'mutte wins taelgar-3 adventure
[2025-12-15 12:38 PM] rsulfuratus: there is actually a possibility this could auto-generated from the session note pipeline if i get the session manifest stuff working
[2025-12-15 12:38 PM] Deciusmus: as long as session notes mention all proper names, but the zoom ones typically do
[2025-12-15 12:40 PM] rsulfuratus: so the idea is that the session note pipeline can generate a json manifest that has places and people, but this can be quickly reviewed manually to add/subtract/fix if needed
[2025-12-15 12:40 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-12-15 12:40 PM] Deciusmus: I forgot that
[2025-12-15 12:40 PM] rsulfuratus: i actually have a bigger plan to move away from campaignInfo frontmatter, and instead use session manifests to track this stuff
[2025-12-15 12:41 PM] Deciusmus: I like that. I don't bother with campaign info usually
[2025-12-15 12:42 PM] rsulfuratus: the workflow would be:
    (1) generate the manifest for a session (automated with AI)
    (2) manual correction
    (3) run some kind of updater code that sets a flag in frontmatter of places/npcs
[2025-12-15 12:43 PM] rsulfuratus: the basic workflow idea is that a note itself only needs to track whether a person (and maybe place/thing) is known to a party; the full details of interactions can be tracked in json separately
[2025-12-15 12:44 PM] rsulfuratus: there is an open question of the wParty lines which are i think useful for players
[2025-12-15 12:44 PM] rsulfuratus: but at some level i think it might be more useful to have a "Party Interactions" callout box with links back to session notes or something than the header info
[2025-12-15 12:45 PM] Deciusmus: but what about the following idea:
    
    * Introduce status/errors, which replaces status/needswork, and is used to track pages where the text shouldn't be trusted. Generally expected to have a `%%` note similar to status/check for what the issues are. Although ideally this is short lived, in reality some pages might linger like this for a while.
    
    * introduce status/gameupdate/(campaign). This really should be short lived, and we should both try to quickly tag impacted pages right after a game. This indicates that a recent session has used/impacted the page in some way
    
    * Introduce status/newinformation. This is in the same group as errors and incomplete, and is used for pages where the page itself is accurate as a point, but new information has come to light that introduces complexity. Like with errors and check, typically should have a short `%%` comment as to what the new info is.
    
    All of these are expected to be short-lived, and newinformation should be used sparingly, ideally primarily for cases where the page rewrite is potentially complex
[2025-12-15 12:46 PM] rsulfuratus: i already went through and updated gameupdate, so everything that had a gameupdate tag should now have a gameupdate/(campaign) tag
[2025-12-15 12:46 PM] rsulfuratus: though this is not guaranteed to be complete
[2025-12-15 12:47 PM] Deciusmus: Which I realize is back to my original suggestion but... Then separately, there is the idea of how to track pages that are used cross campaigns, which could be:
    
    * session manifest stuff or
    * page-usage or something or
    *  campaign-info or
    * not worthwhile
[2025-12-15 12:48 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah i think it makes sense to defer the cross campaign stuff for now. currently i've gotten a bit away from new coding and to the extent i'm doing coding it is still trying to get voice diarization working well for the old dunmar in person recordings
[2025-12-15 12:48 PM] rsulfuratus: i like status/errors and i can probably run through the existing pages tagged status/incomplete and status/needswork and flag them appropriately (there are about 60)
[2025-12-15 12:49 PM] Deciusmus: ok, mama just got here to have lunch so I'm going to go
[2025-12-15 12:49 PM] Deciusmus: probably have meetings most of the afternoon but might dip in a bit here and there
[2025-12-15 12:49 PM] rsulfuratus: i think status/newinformation is a useful concept, and i think also kind of lives in the same space as status/incomplete
[2025-12-15 12:49 PM] rsulfuratus: will think about that a bit more
[2025-12-15 02:10 PM] rsulfuratus: okay, did a little cleanup while eating lunch. a few more thoughts then am likely to be busy with work rest of afternoon. but kate has a church thing tonight so will likely be doing more taelgar stuff after dinner. 
    
    thoughts follow
[2025-12-15 02:12 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that status/errors is great, and it fits with the other status/check tags. 
    
    i think status/check in general is a good catch all for "this page has problems that need review"
    
    what it doesn't really catch to me is "nothing is wrong per se but it feels underdeveloped and i'm not sure i can use it"
[2025-12-15 02:13 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe that doesn't need a status tag? i'm not really sure but i kind of thing there is some value in tagging places where the worldbuilding is thin enough that it hinders prep
[2025-12-15 02:13 PM] rsulfuratus: there is also a related issue, which is disorganized or scattered information - we used to have a collate tag for example
[2025-12-15 02:13 PM] rsulfuratus: again, i'm not sure this is a job for status tags
[2025-12-15 02:14 PM] Deciusmus: I liked status/incomplete for this
[2025-12-15 02:14 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah maybe worth keeping that. it was used inconsistently
[2025-12-15 02:15 PM] rsulfuratus: the boundry between "incomplete" and "stub" is a little unclear
[2025-12-15 02:15 PM] Deciusmus: I think it is useful to have a way to tag "this page needs work" that is distinct from "this page is wrong".
[2025-12-15 02:15 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah
[2025-12-15 02:16 PM] Deciusmus: I do think it is a bit of a grey area with stub. There is actually an argument that status/stub and status/incomplete should merge
[2025-12-15 02:16 PM] Deciusmus: Both basically mean: "this page doesn't feel done enough to be satisifying"
    
    What it takes to clear that is very subject on a page basis though.
[2025-12-15 02:17 PM] Deciusmus: i.e. the Sembara or Embry page needs a lot more than the Teft page before it makes sense to clear status/incomplete
[2025-12-15 02:18 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah i think that is the challenge, and also for the person who originally invented the thing it can be tricky, e.g. i feel like the ethlenn and gloomshaper pages are deeply incomplete, whereas you may feel the cloudspinner page is incomplete
[2025-12-15 02:18 PM] rsulfuratus: this also overlaps a bit with dm_owner
[2025-12-15 02:18 PM] Deciusmus: but to me that is a positive a bit
[2025-12-15 02:18 PM] rsulfuratus: right but then how does a tag get cleared?
[2025-12-15 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: if a page has status/incomplete, and someone changes the page so they feel it is no longer incomplete, I'd expect clearing status/incomplete and adding a status/check/mike|tim
[2025-12-15 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: unless you know it isn't worth that
[2025-12-15 02:20 PM] Deciusmus: I think in practice we each know what pages the other person cares about, and `%%` comments are usually good enough
[2025-12-15 02:21 PM] rsulfuratus: right. maybe worrying about how it gets cleared is not too important immediately.
[2025-12-15 02:21 PM] Deciusmus: i.e. if I was prepping something for a feywild arc and wanted to know more about Morialth, adding some `%%` comments and setting status/incomplete seems like a nice-ish way to track that?
[2025-12-15 02:22 PM] Deciusmus: incomplete to me basically means "I want to know more about this page, and I either don't think I should make it up (because I am not the DM Owner) or don't have time or inclination to make it up right now"
[2025-12-15 02:22 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, okay
[2025-12-15 02:22 PM] Deciusmus: I actually think there is an argment that dm_notes is kinda obsolete
[2025-12-15 02:23 PM] Deciusmus: or rather, could be merged with status/incomplete
[2025-12-15 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: hmm. maybe. i guess i like setting things like dm_notes: color / dm_owner: tim if i have some vibes in my head that i haven't written down yet
[2025-12-15 02:24 PM] Deciusmus: yeah I do as well
[2025-12-15 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that dm_notes implies incomplete in a sense
[2025-12-15 02:24 PM] Deciusmus: but I'm not sure how much value that serves?
[2025-12-15 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: well i'm going to forgot those vibes eventually and ideally i want to write it down
[2025-12-15 02:25 PM] rsulfuratus: though i think it could be status tag, just push instead of pull in a sense
[2025-12-15 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: that is the person who made something up might tag status/incomplete because they have more to write; while someone else might tag status/incomplete because there is something that isn't clear
[2025-12-15 02:26 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, I think that makes sense
[2025-12-15 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: it just load a lot on status/incomplete, it would need to expand like check
[2025-12-15 02:26 PM] Deciusmus: i guess status/incomplete/color vs status/incomplete could be useful
[2025-12-15 02:26 PM] Deciusmus: where /color implies the only thing that is missing is some vibes/color info nothing matierla
[2025-12-15 02:27 PM] Deciusmus: I like using status because status is the best way to manage a work list
[2025-12-15 02:27 PM] rsulfuratus: conceptually there could just be three status tags:
    - incomplete: the note is missing some information, but what is on the page is correct
    - check: the note has or might have errors
    - gameupdate: there are updates to incorporate from a session
[2025-12-15 02:28 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, plus cleanup to the extent it is used for random tracking of nice-to-do future stuff
[2025-12-15 02:28 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah. cleanup is a little overloaded right now but that is a good place for things like collating and reorganizing
[2025-12-15 02:29 PM] rsulfuratus: then i think status/wip is also separately useful specifically and only for pages that are being converted to a fixed format (e.g. playable species, overview region pages, history of XX)
[2025-12-15 02:30 PM] rsulfuratus: i have a meeting now and then a bunch of emails that have accumulated but i pushed some updates, status/review is basically the old status/incomplete stuff
[2025-12-15 02:30 PM] rsulfuratus: feel free to move anything around
[2025-12-15 02:32 PM] rsulfuratus: i will probably take a crack at a status reorg tonight while kate is at her church thing, but i think that trying to just keep it to 5 tags (incomplete, check, gameupdate, wip, cleanup) is cleanest, and potentially dropping the dm_notes aspect and replacing with status/incomplete where needed. need to think a little about status/incomplete subtags...
[2025-12-15 08:02 PM] rsulfuratus: going to push auto-generated summary of chasm ep 2 in ~30 minutes but probably won't actually update taelgarverse until tomorrow if you want to make any edits
[2025-12-15 08:40 PM] rsulfuratus: it is kind of shocking how good Codex is at transcript cleaning. things like catching Taft ->` Teft
[2025-12-15 08:40 PM] rsulfuratus: and every single (that i've seen so far) ASR error around Zefya
[2025-12-15 08:55 PM] Deciusmus: the page on ley lines has dm-notes important
[2025-12-15 08:55 PM] Deciusmus: why?
[2025-12-15 08:56 PM] Deciusmus: ah nevermind the page says
[2025-12-15 08:56 PM] rsulfuratus: there is a comment
[2025-12-15 08:58 PM] rsulfuratus: the old mechanic is actually buried in a comment in the Magic in Taelgar note
[2025-12-15 09:03 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed a cleanup there
[2025-12-15 09:03 PM] rsulfuratus: just put the mechanics in the old mechanics directory and linked
[2025-12-15 09:04 PM] Deciusmus: don't really care about the mechanics, just curious about the metaphysics
[2025-12-15 09:04 PM] rsulfuratus: right but then i can set dm_notes to none
[2025-12-15 09:19 PM] rsulfuratus: `_sessions/chasm-002` has summary paragraph, bullet points, the cleaned transcripts for each scene, and the session manifest. if you have a chance to clean up between now and 6 pm tomorrow i'll update taelgarverse and send out
[2025-12-15 09:21 PM] rsulfuratus: the format will be like ep 01, with the cast of characters and places from the json and the narrative summary and detailed bullet points from summary.md
[2025-12-15 09:21 PM] Deciusmus: I am finalizing prep for tomorrow's session but will review shortly
[2025-12-15 09:21 PM] rsulfuratus: gpt 5.2 is really shocking good at this
[2025-12-15 09:22 PM] rsulfuratus: surprisingly big improvement over 5.1 for long transcripts, i think it has much better context window coherence
[2025-12-15 09:23 PM] Deciusmus: that is one of the reviews I saw of the new openai 5.2 based codex, that it can code for a really long time without losing context

