# Discord DM – 2025-08-07

[2025-08-07 06:00 PM] rsulfuratus: poking around at aurbez / andonne notes. am i correct in my sense that other than some brief notes about places along the road, the only actual settlement made up in aurbez and the andonne is Laicon and Ausson's Crossing? 
    
    pretty much all of the detail that exists otherwise is geography, climate, and culture?
[2025-08-07 06:01 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah
[2025-08-07 06:02 PM] rsulfuratus: Do you have any opinions about settlements? Trying to extrapolate the vibes from 1680s when it was really a barely settled frontier
[2025-08-07 06:05 PM] Deciusmus: Hrm
[2025-08-07 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: I think the history is kinda missing some sort of event to create the “refounded alliance”
[2025-08-07 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: The name is evocative but it probably needs an actual meaning. That might in turn drive the nature of the realm and in turn the nature of the settlements
[2025-08-07 06:09 PM] Deciusmus: I have always kind of thought of the place as very frontier/homesteads, although in a more northern Mexico than Great Plains climate. But with something of an American West settlement pattern. 
    
    But I’m not sure how that relates to the “refounded alliance” and if that’s exactly right anyway
[2025-08-07 06:11 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah, okay. What’s your feeling on how Sembara, Maseau, Aurbez, Andonne relate? In 1680 is doesn’t really matter - Maseau is just being resettled after hobgoblins and further south is barren
[2025-08-07 06:12 PM] rsulfuratus: But by 1720 and especially 1750 there is a lot more trade on the road. Someone is going to build bridges and tolls and castles
[2025-08-07 06:12 PM] rsulfuratus: So is Aurbez a frontier on the plateau still? And March of Andonne has drifted south with funding from Sembaran crown?
[2025-08-07 06:13 PM] rsulfuratus: Or does Aurbez patrol the roads and spill off the plateau and have a more organized feel than in 1680
[2025-08-07 06:14 PM] Deciusmus: So..
    
    In 1720's Sembara, the road between Maseau and Cleenseau is not in great shape - see Bandit's Way in Obsidian
[2025-08-07 06:14 PM] rsulfuratus: Or something else? Andonne is a series of bandit marcher lords that neither sembara or Aurbez like, but tolerate for safety?
[2025-08-07 06:14 PM] Deciusmus: and I think that tends to isolate Maseau from the Sembaran orbit
[2025-08-07 06:15 PM] Deciusmus: But quite plausible this changes between 1720 and 1740.
[2025-08-07 06:16 PM] rsulfuratus: Right, I guess sembara is a little distant to be playing a big role in this area
[2025-08-07 06:17 PM] Deciusmus: I think there is a strongly cultural connection between Maseau `<->` Andonne `<->` Aurbez than any of those places to Addermarch or Sembara
[2025-08-07 06:19 PM] rsulfuratus: Right. Putting aside sembara though, there is still a question of basically who controls the road
[2025-08-07 06:20 PM] rsulfuratus: And what the vibe is, and how cnetralized things are. Is there a monarch of aurbez or andonne?
[2025-08-07 06:20 PM] rsulfuratus: Mostly just curious if you have strong opinions in any direction before I develop a bunch of stuff
[2025-08-07 06:21 PM] rsulfuratus: Haven’t thought deeply yet, except that it feels like even in 1720, and definitely in 1750, the area is less frontier than it was in 1680s
[2025-08-07 06:23 PM] Deciusmus: Right
[2025-08-07 06:25 PM] Deciusmus: A few thoughts, although I guess I don't really have very strong opinions...
    
    (a) I don't think either Andonne or Aurbez has a monarch per se - they both seem like places that should be different than monarchies
    (b) Maseau is I think ruled by a noble family in some fashion
[2025-08-07 06:29 PM] rsulfuratus: My inclination, fwiw, is that Andonne is really just a loose collection of lords in castles
[2025-08-07 06:29 PM] Deciusmus: (c) the road by 1745 is probably pretty heavily travelled - I like the general vibe of  The Travelogue of Etienne of Cassons - which suggests that Refounded Alliance is something of a real entity with patrols of the road and their own merchants and such - but that the Andonne is more wildlands
[2025-08-07 06:30 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I like that
[2025-08-07 06:30 PM] rsulfuratus: Aurbez still thinking about but agree it should feel more solid
[2025-08-07 06:32 PM] Deciusmus: I think Andonne works pretty well as a fairly unorganized territory with no formal poitical entity, and where effectively each lord has a castle - or really a large, fortified ranchhouse/hacendia/Roman argicultural villa
[2025-08-07 06:34 PM] Deciusmus: so maybe between 50 and 200 people living in a "castle"
    ranching is the main source of income, but also I like the idea hinted at in various places of stipends from the richer "north" (i.e. Maseau or Sembara) paid for castle repairs/castle maintenance (officially)
[2025-08-07 06:34 PM] Deciusmus: but you might imagine a fair mix of lords
[2025-08-07 06:35 PM] Deciusmus: and no real enforcement, other than occasionally a patrol from the Army of the West swings through, or separately, some group from Maseau.
[2025-08-07 06:36 PM] Deciusmus: But also beyond those stipends, there is a fair bit of trade along the road, so you could have slightly more predatory lords who try to tax travellers pretty heavily
[2025-08-07 06:37 PM] Deciusmus: But also the road isn't super safe, so most travelers are in caravans with guards and such - so one of these marcher lords doesn't have infinite power to just mess with people
[2025-08-07 06:38 PM] Deciusmus: And like the idea of Aurbez having "Alliance caravans" and some degree of group ownership of metalic wealth recovered from Ardith, say. Plus some degree of Ranger cult in the area
[2025-08-07 06:38 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah I think that version of Andonne is what I had in mind
[2025-08-07 06:41 PM] rsulfuratus: Aurbez I’m less sure. Our idea for istabor was a kind of New England town hall style place with lots of freeholds and city states and relatively little higher organization
[2025-08-07 06:41 PM] rsulfuratus: Not sure whether that jives with collective ownership of metal wealth eg
[2025-08-07 06:41 PM] Deciusmus: (The "Maseau-Dunmar Road" has a description of the vibe, which I largely like, although not 100% wedded to it)
[2025-08-07 06:42 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe it isn't so much group ownership as service provider. i.e. the "Alliance" is actually, at heart, a commerical alliance more than anything
[2025-08-07 06:43 PM] Deciusmus: So Alliance caravans are just a service provided to the Aurbeze community for a fee
[2025-08-07 06:45 PM] Deciusmus: I sorta like the idea of the Refounded Alliance of Aurbez being something almost more like a guild than a government, and perhaps even membership is basically optionally. Not all homesteads in the Aurbez plateau are actually members of the Alliance, but most are
[2025-08-07 06:45 PM] Deciusmus: and in the background there is some kind of secret cult of Rangers, trying to maintain safety for their own purposes
[2025-08-07 06:45 PM] Deciusmus: I'm going to cook dinner but I'll see responses now and then
[2025-08-07 06:46 PM] rsulfuratus: I had an almost completely opposite take, it is basically a mutual aid society. Almost like revolutionary war America
[2025-08-07 06:46 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess the fundamental question is (a) how much traffic really is there, and (b) how safe is it.
[2025-08-07 06:47 PM] rsulfuratus: I think the description in the note works for 1680/ but in 1750 there is a lot more traffic and trade
[2025-08-07 06:47 PM] rsulfuratus: But maybe not?
[2025-08-07 06:54 PM] Deciusmus: I like mutual aid society actually
[2025-08-07 06:55 PM] Deciusmus: I think the most important words in “refounded alliance of Aurbez” are “refounded” (ie it is explicitly trying to recapture something about Istbor Allianxe) and “alliance” (ie it is some kind of quasi-state or association of people more than a government per se)
[2025-08-07 06:57 PM] rsulfuratus: here is one take. 
    (1) in the 1680s, Aurbez is a sparsely populated frontier, a lot of people fled from the hobgoblin wars and settled, and a few brave travelers are making their way out into the world along the road. this is frontier vibe from the docs, with no bridges across the rivers, and difficult travel. 
    (2) during the next two generations, traffic and trade grows. the plaguelands are never safe, but the hobgoblin threat is largely vanquished, and aurbez grows. it remains pretty disorganized, mostly just homesteaders and volunteer militias and the Rangers, but there is money to be made here. population swells. 
    (3) sometime in the past generation - most likely during the 1720s or when Sembara is in chaos - something happens. an enemy emerges from the plaguelands, and sembara cannot help. the "Refounded Alliance" is basically the continental congress of the Aurbez plateau. 
    (4) over the past generation or two, this solidifies into, not quite a government, but a mutual aid society. there are jointly funded militias that patrol when rangers can't, etc.
    (5) in 1750, this feels likea distinct political entity, although there is no formal government and many people still live indenpendly in homesteads. but there is a lot of traffic on the road now, etc
[2025-08-07 06:57 PM] rsulfuratus: this is not a place that has complicated rules about land ownership or taxes, for example
[2025-08-07 06:57 PM] rsulfuratus: and like andonne, a lot of income for the mutual defense comes from taxes on travelers
[2025-08-07 06:59 PM] rsulfuratus: the exact details are a bit fuzzy but the vibe is kind of "mutual defense and mutual aid society forged in disaster"
[2025-08-07 06:59 PM] rsulfuratus: but still a deeply independent streak, no one is pledging fealty for example
[2025-08-07 07:00 PM] rsulfuratus: maybe something a bit like the early Iceland Commonwealth plus early American continental congress vibes
[2025-08-07 07:01 PM] rsulfuratus: and now it serves an important role keeping the road safe for travelers - even if that sometimes means paying off hobgoblin chiefs
[2025-08-07 07:04 PM] Deciusmus: I think that’s pretty solid, although a few minor notes-
    
    I’m not sure totally about money. Is coin even important here? I think the patrols are more volunteer militia than hired mercenary, and the main need for coin is Ie from a caravan that buys weapons in Cleenseau
[2025-08-07 07:05 PM] Deciusmus: I think the area is self sufficient in food
[2025-08-07 07:05 PM] Deciusmus: I also think “a lot” of traffic might be more like a given town sees a couple of caravans most days, in summer, and not much, in winter
[2025-08-07 07:06 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah maybe not a lot of coin, although they must import some stuff and also need to maintain bridges and the like
[2025-08-07 07:06 PM] rsulfuratus: Winter would be quiet because the passes are closed
[2025-08-07 07:06 PM] rsulfuratus: And yeah a couple caravans makes sense. But a lot of goods would also move not via long distance caravans
[2025-08-07 07:07 PM] Deciusmus: Are there bridges? I’m not convinced their has to be bridges over all of the rivers or even any of them
[2025-08-07 07:08 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess it is possible the rivers cannot be bridged? Otherwise I’m not sure why someone wouldn’t build one
[2025-08-07 07:08 PM] Deciusmus: Depends on the difficulty
[2025-08-07 07:08 PM] Deciusmus: Wide/ likely to flood/etc makes bridging harder.
[2025-08-07 07:08 PM] Deciusmus: I have no idea when say most rivers in Europe were braided
[2025-08-07 07:08 PM] Deciusmus: Bridged
[2025-08-07 07:13 PM] rsulfuratus: ChatGPT 5 says most rivers on important research routes would be bridged by 13th - 14th century
[2025-08-07 07:14 PM] rsulfuratus: `*`trade
[2025-08-07 07:18 PM] rsulfuratus: Anyway a bit of a side point from the overall vibe
[2025-08-07 07:18 PM] Deciusmus: Yes
[2025-08-07 07:20 PM] Deciusmus: I like the basic idea. Other thoughts—
    
    The “danger” would fit perfectly in 1720, probably winter 1719-1720, basically concurrent with my game
[2025-08-07 07:21 PM] Deciusmus: Or maybe 1720 summer (ie about to happen)
[2025-08-07 07:24 PM] Deciusmus: Also I think the alliance should have some continuity with istabor. 
    
    Maybe since the 1550s when the first refugees started settling there was some kind of mutual aid society but focused very much on Isinguese/ranger cult
[2025-08-07 07:27 PM] Deciusmus: During the hobgoblin wars, lots of non-isinguese started settling (I mean not lots in absolute terms, I am imagining population numbers in the 10k-50k for the whole region) and the alliance explicitly “loses” some kind of polical debate but in the aftermath of the “bad” thing in 1720 it changes somehow? Just brainstorming.. off to eat dinner more later
[2025-08-07 08:04 PM] rsulfuratus: so i think the vibe is then something like:
    1550s - 1600ish, small refugees hiding out in caves, etc; gets safer, but not safe, after the stoneborn/hobgoblin war in the 1550s or 1560s
    1600is - 1680ish - frontier period, lots of new settlers, especially once the dunmari defeat the blackened claw and the passes south are opened for the first time in generations (this is ~1610ish)
    1680ish - 1720 - still a frontier, but road traffic growing and money to be made, so population growing too; many newcomers question the mutual aid vibe and lots of independent settlements. this isn't a free-for-all of marcher lords like andonne, but it has a deep independent streak and a lot of if not exactly distain, maybe more frustration with the "old guard" who keep bringing up how it was in istabor
    1720 - 1750 - refounded alliance. something bad comes out of the plaguelands and communities draw together for mutual aid, especially as sembara has it's own troubles at the moment.
[2025-08-07 08:09 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that puts, in 1750:
    - although most of the population is still extremely rural and the area is largely self-sufficient in food, there are some market towns. in part i am imagining a lot of small distance trade. the dunmari are unlikely to ride from karawa to cassons, but a horse trader might drive their flock over the passes in the summer and sell horses at a market town near the crossroads. or a merchant in cassons might make their living on a week's ride to the massance crossing to buy exotic goods from chardon, that kind of thing. my understanding is this is how a lot of long distance trade worked, historically
[2025-08-07 08:11 PM] rsulfuratus: - i don't know if there is a "killer good" that would drive trade, though, other than chalyte-powered magic items but i'm not sure how much chardon allows those to be sold outside the empire. there isn't really anything like silk or spices that would go sembara `<->` chardon, although we could make something up
[2025-08-07 08:12 PM] rsulfuratus: - still, i think very few of the aurbeze are traders and merchants themselves, although i think they would profit from the trade somehow. i think aurbez is probably a friendly, but kind of insular, community. they are nice to strangers but slow to treat them as one of their own
[2025-08-07 09:17 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah that all works. I agree that long distance trade is probably pretty rare to Chardon. I think the vibe is more the roads are not empty, but they are not super busy either, and there is occasional big halfling or similar caravans from far away but mostly trade is local— except for metals from Ardith
[2025-08-07 09:17 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe the bad thing came from the mountains not the plague lands
[2025-08-07 09:18 PM] Deciusmus: And one outcome is a alliance monopoly on wildcat mining for Magic Reasons

