# Discord DM – 2025-12-07

[2025-12-07 10:39 AM] Deciusmus: how does the map work?
[2025-12-07 11:22 AM] rsulfuratus: right now it is in progress. might not stick with dropbox - but you should be able to just open the base/taelgar-basemap.psb
[2025-12-07 11:23 AM] rsulfuratus: eventually may move back to adobe cloud, just trying to figure out how to work with linked files and such. 
    
    ultimately the goal is to have a composite map that is just linked pieces. but not there yet
[2025-12-07 11:34 AM] rsulfuratus: we are putting up our christmas tree today so probably won't work on it much today, but it is pretty usable already for things like rivers (just haven't imported text / roads / cities yet, or any annotations)
[2025-12-07 05:38 PM] Deciusmus: did you have something made up about dragonscale weapons and armor?
[2025-12-07 05:38 PM] Deciusmus: I can't find anything in obsidian
[2025-12-07 06:14 PM] rsulfuratus: The ones from Ursk? I’ll check - thought I had something but might be in my dm notes
[2025-12-07 06:44 PM] rsulfuratus: looking at my notes. i didn't make up "dragonscale" things as a generic category, only dragonhide armor/cloak and frostshard weapons. but i had these in the ursk market
    
    `**`White Dragon Scale Armor** (*requires attunement*, very rare). This armor counts as scale mail. While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, you have advantage on saving throws against the Frightful Presence and breath weapons of dragons, and you have resistance to cold damage. Additionally, you can focus your senses as an action to magically discern the distance and direction to the closest white dragon within 30 miles of you. This special action can't be used again until the next dawn.
    
    
    `**`Dragon's Claw Dagger** (*requires attunement*, rare). A dagger fashioned from the tooth of a dragon. While the blade is obviously a fang or predator’s tooth, the handle is leather wrapped around the root of the tooth, and there is no cross-guard. You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls you make with this weapon. On a hit with this weapon, the target takes an extra 1d6 cold damage.
    
    `**`Dragonscale Cloak** (*requires attunement*, rare). Constructed from the scales and claw of a white dragon, this cloak shimmers in the light. While wearing this cloak, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, and you can't be charmed or frightened. Moreover, each creature of your choice within 30 feet of you has advantage on saving throws it makes to avoid being charmed or frightened or to end those conditions on itself.
[2025-12-07 07:11 PM] Deciusmus: I really like the hex grid for rivers. I fixed a bunch of minor things in sembara

