# Discord DM – 2025-05-28

[2025-05-28 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: proposed reorg of campaign directory, inspired by trying to get more OneNote stuff (mostly Great Library) into obsidian:
    
    (1) Reorganize with top-level directories for the four major canonical campaigns, (Cleenseau, Addermarch, Great Library, Dunmar), plus Mawar. 
    (2) Add an Adventures top-level directory with a landing page, plus sub-directories for canonical and semi-canonical 1-4 session adventures. Right now Ausson's Crossing and Labyrinth of the Lost have campaign directories, while other short adventures do not, or don't have anything useful in them anyway. 
    (3) Move Mechanics and Player's Guide to Background
    
    Open Questions:
    (1) Where to put non-canonical or semi-canonical stuff? Could make a Non-Canon directory to put any notes for non-canonical stuff as desired, but this will function more or less like the Brainstorming and/or Tentative parts of Worldbuliding and might just make sense to put in, say, Worldbuilding/Campaigns or something. 
    (2) What do do with Great War? It is kind of in a unique semi-canonical position (other semi-canonical stuff is generally in the framework of "the background material is real but the events may not be", while great war is more "the setting has changed but the events are real")
[2025-05-28 12:30 PM] Deciusmus: I like that as a basic idea.  Might not have time to think about in detail right now though
[2025-05-28 12:30 PM] Deciusmus: In general I think moving stuff to worldbuilding is usually the right move though
[2025-05-28 12:31 PM] Deciusmus: For semi-canon
[2025-05-28 01:06 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed a reorg. happy to revert things you don't like in the future if you have more time to think
[2025-05-28 01:17 PM] rsulfuratus: still planning on fiddling a bit more later today, although have meetings for a good chunk of the afternoon. 
    
    the semi-canonical stuff (Great War, Ausson's Crossing, Stone Titan) likely to prove most complex but for now dumped it all into worldbuilding/campaigns
[2025-05-28 01:18 PM] rsulfuratus: excepting Ausson's Crossing and Great War PCs, which are canonical (Great War definitely, Ausson's Crossing according to what you've written in the campaigns directory)
[2025-05-28 01:18 PM] rsulfuratus: and hence live in the PCs directory
[2025-05-28 01:18 PM] rsulfuratus: (which, separately, needs a bit of work)
[2025-05-28 08:07 PM] rsulfuratus: final update on campaigns. while not everything is filled out, basic organization now puts dunmar, cleenseau, addermarch, great library, mawar, plus canon one shots (oskar + riswynn, western cymea low level) in campaigns.
    
    all of these also have at least a PC directory, although some dont have anything there yet. 
    
    ausson's crossing and great war get PC directories, but not campaign directories, as the details of the story is not necessarily canon
    
    ausson's crossing, great war, and stone titan get directories in worldbuilding/campaigns. there is also a non-canon in worldbuilding/campaigns with some notes from plaguelands, aborted family version of cleenseau
    
    i will likely mess around with the organization of my version of taelgar to make an "Other Campaigns" landing page for my "Other Campaigns" TOC. 
    
    however for now the only complete list of campaigns in in the Campaigns/campaigns.md note, which is not intended to be published

