# Discord DM – 2025-01-22

[2025-01-22 05:54 PM] rsulfuratus: finished the top-level multiverse pages:
    - everything is now written in-world, with some different scholarly ideas
    - most pages have a campaign none section at the end for DM notes
    - planes are set to `[place]`, groups of planes are set to `[background]`
    - everything has dm_notes: none
    
    I did not tag check/mike but would be happy with commets if you have any
[2025-01-22 06:03 PM] rsulfuratus: taking a break from cosmology to work on check/tim stuff. 
    
    kate stayed up in Alexandria because she is taking an online class in London time zone (so 4 am to 12 noon roughly) and it seemed less disruptive, so i'm probably going to work on taelgar most of evening now that I've mostly wrapped up actual work
[2025-01-22 06:28 PM] Deciusmus: A few comments as I read....
    
    first, this is all really nice. It is a great format for this kind of topic, and makes me want to do the same sort of thing for some of the history (although that is much harder, but maybe doable for pre-downfall without too much work)
[2025-01-22 06:31 PM] Deciusmus: specific comments..
    
    Land of the Dead:
    * this sentence "it is generally accepted that the Divine cannot act freely in the world, and that it is through the conduit across the Land of the Dead provided by souls that most miracles occur. " reads a bit unclear to me. 
    
    I think you are trying to capture the metaphyiscal idea that divine magic goes: God ->` plane of souls ->` material realm?
[2025-01-22 06:31 PM] Deciusmus: as an aside, the implication of that is that gods cannot in fact do anything at all, without _someone's_ soul to carry the miracle
[2025-01-22 06:32 PM] Deciusmus: that is a very Chaldonian idea, not sure if it has to be Taelgar canon, but if it is, this might be a good place to state it.
    
    If it isn't, it might be better to be a bit vaguer?
[2025-01-22 06:33 PM] Deciusmus: Second: It is a bit unsatisfying to have the "see more" on gidari be mostly the same text, but I assume that is because there is no motivation to make the Giardi page better right now
[2025-01-22 06:34 PM] rsulfuratus: my intention is not the strong implication of "gods cannot do anything without someone's soul to carry the miracle", but rather the weak implication of "it takes a lot of effort to directly act in the world and it is a lot easier to pour though the "channel" opened by a soul" (the example being Jeevali literally expended enough power in some sense to become un-divine to cleanse Dunmar of the plague curse - so it is not that these miracles don't happen but that this sort of things is costly for gods, potentially "deadly" in a sense)
[2025-01-22 06:35 PM] rsulfuratus: I do have more notes on Gidari (dm_notes: important), just haven't updated that page yet
[2025-01-22 06:36 PM] rsulfuratus: ideally I'd like to do it in a similar way, with rumors and descriptions from various cultures, just haven't gotten to it yet. most of my invention aroudn the gidari is from the kenzo solo but i do have a lot of notes on at least one, potentially uncommon, "kind" of gidari
[2025-01-22 06:36 PM] rsulfuratus: (but all in onenote)
[2025-01-22 06:40 PM] rsulfuratus: New text I think captures better:
    "While most theologians reject the idea that the Journey of Souls is simply the mechanical process of [[Soulstuff]] diffusing across a cosmological barrier, it is generally accepted that Divine power flows far more easily though the channels provided by souls, and that for deities to manifest the power of creation directly in the Material Plane often carries a great cost. Thus, it is through the conduit across the Land of the Dead provided by souls that most miracles occur, although there are [[Founding of Dunmar|dramatic exceptions]]. "
[2025-01-22 06:41 PM] Deciusmus: maybe "it is through their connection to the soulstuff on the Plane of Souls that most miracles occur?
[2025-01-22 06:42 PM] Deciusmus: or are you trying to avoid mentioning plane of souls?
[2025-01-22 06:43 PM] Deciusmus: I think what wasn't super clear to me is what is meant by the "conduit across the land of the dead".
    
    It implies that there is some connection between a divinity and soulstuff, right?
[2025-01-22 06:46 PM] rsulfuratus: No
[2025-01-22 06:46 PM] rsulfuratus: Yes
[2025-01-22 06:53 PM] Deciusmus: Is psionics really necessarily powered by a strong connection to the plane of souls?
[2025-01-22 06:56 PM] Deciusmus: I might rephrase that first bullet as something like:
    
    Although there is no specific definition of psoinics in Taelgar, any magical effects that represent a magical "inner strength" (such as monk focus, or certain types of psionics) would likely be a result of a particular "strength of soul" on the Plane of Souls. While there are not really any direct mechanical consequences of this, for flavor reasons it is worth keeping in mind that these magics are quite distinct from arcane magic or divine miracles. The flavor should tend towards drawing on the power of the soulstuff that resides within you
[2025-01-22 06:58 PM] Deciusmus: Specifically, I've been running the psionic effects that Viepuck generates via his patron as very much NOT "plane of souls".
[2025-01-22 06:58 PM] Deciusmus: As an aside, I wonder if a background page on "the typology of magic" would be useful
[2025-01-22 07:00 PM] Deciusmus: I think the Metaphysics of Souls page is probably obsolete almost entirely...
[2025-01-22 07:05 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah that makes sense. Obviously far realm psionics is different from eg soul knife rogue
[2025-01-22 07:06 PM] Deciusmus: I pushed a few typo fixes and whatnot but overall I love it all
[2025-01-22 07:12 PM] Deciusmus: I'm going to eat, but I moved the "Metaphysics of Souls" to background with the idea that really, if we cleaned up the "Traditions Around Death" then traditions around death + the land of dead/plane of souls/soulstuff pages would replace it
[2025-01-22 08:13 PM] rsulfuratus: working on spiritual realms, now, and i'm actually not sure whether incorporeal gods should, in general, have planes. maybe this is what the original high school conception of the "all the gods are just aspects of the Divine Presence" idea means. Incorporeal Gods are, actually, manifestations of pure Soulstuff and to the extent they have "homes" it is the Plane of Creation itself. 
    
    this might actually simplify some things:
    - where the souls of people who worship tanshi or kestavo go
    - the fact that we've never really had any lore about human "heavens" despite there being a lot of lore about non-human heavens
    - the actual metaphysical distinction between incorporal and embodied gods
[2025-01-22 08:14 PM] rsulfuratus: the only thing that has ever been made up and canonically exists that is associated with a human god is Shakun's Realm, and that is a distinctly unusual place. it is not a place where human souls go in the afterlife, it is basically a trap for the enemies of Dunmar. so it could easily be an echo realm or a demiplane or whatever, much more like Cha'mutte's shadow realms than an Outer Plane.
[2025-01-22 08:17 PM] Deciusmus: Hrm…
[2025-01-22 08:18 PM] rsulfuratus: part of my thinking is that, if something has not come up in 5 years of running games in Taelgar, and also has not needed to be developed for any of the many extensive discussions of religion, maybe there is a reason
[2025-01-22 08:19 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah.
[2025-01-22 08:20 PM] Deciusmus: I actually think it does solve a bunch of issues
[2025-01-22 08:20 PM] Deciusmus: My only real hesitation is that it feels like it kinda blurs the lines between different religious traditions in a way I’m not totally sold on
[2025-01-22 08:22 PM] Deciusmus: But I agree the idea of some kind of Mos Numena heaven seems off
[2025-01-22 08:22 PM] rsulfuratus: i did at one point long ago develop a Dunmari heaven (this is the Arkaash stub) but i never really liked it so never used it in game
[2025-01-22 08:23 PM] rsulfuratus: i think the D&D-useful verions of mythological heavens all draw much more heavily from historical religions that conceptualized gods as much more directly interacting with humans, but being much less powerful overall than Taelgar gods
[2025-01-22 08:23 PM] rsulfuratus: e.g. Greek gods
[2025-01-22 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: but also, outer planes in D&D are traditionally associated with alignment, not specific gods
[2025-01-22 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: so even in standard D&D models of cosmology is it never exactly clear where the gods actually live
[2025-01-22 08:28 PM] Deciusmus: Right. I think the main tension is probably around the "pantheonic" gods like the Dunmari gods and Kaikeka, who both feel like entities that should have some kind of 'real' existence
[2025-01-22 08:28 PM] Deciusmus: So where do they exist?
[2025-01-22 08:28 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe it does work for them to exist in some sort of nebolous "plane of creation"
[2025-01-22 08:30 PM] rsulfuratus: I guess I would propose this is maybe something that, in-world, should be completely unknown and perhaps unknowable, and therefore unanswerable out-of-game
[2025-01-22 08:30 PM] rsulfuratus: people come back from the dead, and can describe their vague memories of the land of the dead, and brave/foolhardy adventurers can plane shift there
[2025-01-22 08:31 PM] rsulfuratus: but if anyone resurrected after ~10 days doesn't remember anything about what happened after they were on the plane of the dead, and you can't plane shift to the realms of the incorporeal gods, then in some sense they don't really ever need to exist as places that can be described
[2025-01-22 08:31 PM] Deciusmus: That's not a bad idea; it actually ties together nicely with the divine spark and the nature of the Divine Presence all being interlated with what incorporeal gods are
[2025-01-22 08:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i think it also clarifies a bit the basic idea of the outer planes, although it doesn't necessarily answer all the questions about timing.
    
    basically, you have the realms of the embodied gods, created potentially during the riving for the Firstborn who are given physical form and presence by the power of Divine Creation
[2025-01-22 08:34 PM] Deciusmus: (and to add, defining what those things are as some sort of unknowa=nable mystery)
[2025-01-22 08:34 PM] rsulfuratus: then, you have the "spiritual realms' which are just "anything made of soulstuff"
[2025-01-22 08:35 PM] rsulfuratus: there doesn't have to be any unified creation story for the rest of the outer planes, and they don't all necessarily need to be "evils of humanity"
[2025-01-22 08:36 PM] rsulfuratus: i mean we already settled on that basic idea but it was still a little anchored to the "human belief ->` outer planes"
[2025-01-22 08:38 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I like that
[2025-01-22 09:16 PM] rsulfuratus: copied this discussion to obsidian. might put aside spiritual realms for tonight and think on it a bit.
[2025-01-22 09:17 PM] Deciusmus: I'm taking a stab at an in-world "Mythic Age" page. I really like the cosmology pages and I think the in-world style with Campaign Notes would work quite well from some of the early history
[2025-01-22 09:18 PM] rsulfuratus: glad you like them. i think the style is really good for background lore like this. 
    
    i was thinking for history, a more viable approach might be to extent and develop the thing I started to do with Cavarrio's Chronicles of Drankor. basically just focus on a single in-world scholarly secondary source
[2025-01-22 09:19 PM] rsulfuratus: (at least for major overview pages)
[2025-01-22 09:19 PM] rsulfuratus: i'd also like to do in-world lore pages for non-playable species at some point. that might be my next project after cosmology

