# Discord DM – 2025-11-17

[2025-11-17 09:05 AM] rsulfuratus: added kenku to D&D beyond: https://www.dndbeyond.com/species/2043575-kenku
[2025-11-17 09:06 AM] rsulfuratus: basically what is in obsidian, except:
    (1) i moved the change your voice part of masked body to level 1, and let you also mimic sounds, but not mimic a specific person
    (2) i added resistance to psychic damage (this might be overkill given flight is strong)
[2025-11-17 09:06 AM] rsulfuratus: i think it should work but didn't test extensively - if you notice anything weird when you change kong & eric's species lmk
[2025-11-17 09:07 AM] rsulfuratus: have a light day at work but then a bit of a scramble in the evening to get nathaniel to/from esh and make dinner and clean up before the game, so easier to fix anything before 5:30
[2025-11-17 09:07 AM] Deciusmus: I'm the opposite, but I will try to add them soon
[2025-11-17 09:08 AM] rsulfuratus: could probably tweak things at like 7:45, i guess we aren't starting until 8:30 which gives a little bit more breathing room in the evening
[2025-11-17 09:08 AM] rsulfuratus: just will be slammed from ~5:20 - 7 something when the kitchen is clean
[2025-11-17 12:28 PM] Deciusmus: Kenku looks ok on Eric’s sheet at least
[2025-11-17 01:47 PM] Deciusmus: Don’t have a lot of time but did look briefly at your Atavus notes. 
    
    From a clee perspective the only canonical thing is around Cleenseau itself and his armies have to have at least fought as far east as fellburn although fellburn doesn’t have to have been captured
    
    Western and northern extent are very unclear although my basic assumption is that Atavus domain never included the duchy of Wisford and his armies never reached the aure, but there was significant fighting west of rinburg on both sides of the Enst, and south of the Enst east of rinburg, crossing at least at fellburn and maybe elsewhere.
[2025-11-17 01:48 PM] Deciusmus: But also I don’t think Tyrwingha was ever seriously threatened, although there has to be some connection to larger events that makes Ethlenn want to rise up the house of sewick from obscurity.
[2025-11-17 01:49 PM] Deciusmus: Kenku is all good btw
[2025-11-17 01:51 PM] rsulfuratus: i have meetings from 2 - 4 but am having codex add a few more summaries to the avatus brainstorming. the historical framework between the fall of drankor and the great war is not well developed, and while in some places it doesn't need to be, the history of the war with avatus is playing an increasingly significant part in the addermarch game so it might be useful to get a basic framework down
[2025-11-17 04:37 PM] Deciusmus: I don't think there is any controversial worldbuilding here, but here's my revamped intro for tonight.
    
    For as long as anyone remembers, the Great Chasm has split Zimkova like a wound—an impossible cleft that plunges into endless depths, from which strangeness emerges: spires of impossible buildings, unexpected lights, storms and winds that seem to defy gravity, and unusual and unseasonable plants. 
    
    Although many see it as the home of Zeyfa, the cruel west wind of the Zimkovan legends, not all do: the kenku monks of the Kemeko Monastery see it as a place of safety and refuge, and the mystics of the Vejo Vaikai believe the Chasm is a place of elemental balance.
    
    The summer of 1729 in Zimkova started fine and fair, but by late August, rumors of an orcish horde lead by a fearsome orc calling herself the Ravager of Winter, had started to spread across Breva. In early September the news came: a great battle had been fought north of the Great Chasm between the dwarves of Nidzahar, apparently aided by a large contingent of Stoneborn, and the orcish horde. The Ravager was killed, and the bulk of the orcs were defeated - but scattered bands fled south to Breva like angry wasps, and the Mezhai – the woodswalkers – and many others were kept busy defending the people.
[2025-11-17 04:37 PM] Deciusmus: And so few noticed as the first signs of the Chasm changing. A summer thunderstorm, thick and warm, burst forth in October. But this had happened before, although rarely. A sandstorm, thick and dry, with scorching heat, in November. 
    A boulder of volcanic stone, aflame with green fire, which tumbled down the southern rapids and floated all the way to the Green Sea was remarked upon as mighty strange. 
    
    In December, a rainbow appeared that stretched across the sky and a day later, shattered into hundreds of thousands of shards of glass was widely seen as an omen - but few could agree on what it meant. When that rainbow sign was followed by a living sheet of ice that drifted down the Teft like a predator, leaving dead fish and frozen banks in its wake, many across Breva began to believe Zeyfa was angry.
    
    At the start of January, the sky above the Chasm turned black, and held, blotting out the sun, for five days and nights. And so on January 8th, two weeks before Quintarum, the Sembaran feast day of the Wanderer, the Vejo Vaikai gathered some of their wisest mystics, and sent them, protected by the warriors of Kemeko, to investigate.
    Three weeks have passed. None have returned.
[2025-11-17 04:39 PM] rsulfuratus: very nice
[2025-11-17 04:40 PM] rsulfuratus: i am deep into post-Drankor, pre-Great-War history. just pushed a bit more of an update
[2025-11-17 04:40 PM] Deciusmus: I'm mostly buried in prep for tonight
[2025-11-17 04:41 PM] rsulfuratus: i assumed
[2025-11-17 04:41 PM] Deciusmus: but might have a min to look, but probably not
[2025-11-17 04:41 PM] rsulfuratus: no rush on anything
[2025-11-17 04:41 PM] rsulfuratus: just trying to organize some thoughts - rest of my week is busier at work and i still need to get back to my session notes project
[2025-11-17 04:41 PM] rsulfuratus: just feel like it would be useful to set up the details of Avatus a little more cleanly for various reasons
[2025-11-17 04:42 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, agreed
[2025-11-17 05:34 PM] Deciusmus: here is the Justas and Finnan bit, I think this fits the vibe for Finnan..
    
    After an unexpected fall of hunting orcs, Justas and Finnan, you are wintering in the small village of Dravnieki (DRAHV-nyeh-kee) on the banks of the upper Teft. The village was attacked twice by orcs, and you are here in part as a favor to the village elders, as added protection in case more dangers come out of the winter. Other than the rumors around the Chasm, it has been a quiet winter, although you wonder about the omens, and think maybe a journey to the Chasm would be interesting, come spring.
    
    But the black sky above the Chasm, visible even here, seventy-five miles away, changed your plans. None in Dravieki or the surrounding villages dared head north, but you felt a pull - perhaps a memory of the halflings, or the whisper of the kestavo, or perhaps just your curiosity and sense of duty to the people of Zimka. Either way, by January 10th you had gathered supplies and started the trek north. In the winter forests 10 miles a day would be making good time, and you didn’t always make good time. But by January 22nd, you’ve reached the outflow, where the Teft spills out of the Chasm, and are making your way along the edge towards Kemeko, when you receive a message from Jrain, your friend and woodswalker.
    
    A mysterious woman, speaking only Old Zimkovan, and terrified of being near the Chasm or speaking to the monks of Kemeko, has emerged from the Chasm, and Jrain is bringing her to you to see if you can understand her and decipher her story.
    
    You agree to meet them in two days time - January 24th - at a well-known campsite along the north side of the Chasm.
[2025-11-17 08:22 PM] rsulfuratus: phew. finally getting organized - much easier to be a player! i added some equipment to finnan (potions and such) although realistically he is going to prioritize his writing stuff, then his instruments, and only then potions and the like (he has one scroll in his writing case)
[2025-11-17 08:22 PM] Deciusmus: do you have any pre-made playlists of music?
[2025-11-17 08:22 PM] Deciusmus: that is the one thing I didn't get to
[2025-11-17 08:23 PM] rsulfuratus: what kind of music? i usually just search something on spotify unless i'm going for a specific style
[2025-11-17 08:23 PM] Deciusmus: my spotify search fu is maybe not great, I don't love what I am finding with random search
[2025-11-17 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: here are a few of my kind of generic ones
[2025-11-17 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/337BxNHMOh9gvtDoJ9Dwkl?si=025a111196f245c7
[2025-11-17 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/7w51Bu10epBEUqEoIKYRLV?si=cbec11a4bc3a4a3f
[2025-11-17 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2b3QQxq3n0cH8JDe3DGvEP?si=5af1d46bb9094615
[2025-11-17 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/3SWZtHRloqkU4lhGDk5Qz4?si=a2e0465fab964337
[2025-11-17 08:24 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/074jupM1sF1oGUf8yrtMg5?si=5038cff596614d9d
[2025-11-17 08:25 PM] rsulfuratus: this is my vargaldi playlist which might work
[2025-11-17 08:25 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/0nRVzWGCfUsZbZGkfuOgPj?si=bda160a7c4434bc9
[2025-11-17 08:26 PM] rsulfuratus: delwath solo prequel: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/4EI5BBXtEVbLO8W29IT2wG?si=1cc5ee870731427a
[2025-11-17 08:26 PM] rsulfuratus: frost giants:
[2025-11-17 08:26 PM] rsulfuratus: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/0NWwhI9T5lWxRwP5f0XCeG?si=099828f936da4bb6
[2025-11-17 08:27 PM] rsulfuratus: generic omninous session start: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/1lfX8Ad4Z6WIYrgDJyXcul?si=a358d4851a834114

