# Discord DM – 2025-01-26

[2025-01-26 10:41 AM] rsulfuratus: looked at your region branch some more. i think the design is really good and we should just merge it, even in the somewhat draft form it is currently in
[2025-01-26 10:42 AM] Deciusmus: I have a game today so don't have time for anything except a bit of last minute prep, but happy for you to merge it if you want
[2025-01-26 10:43 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm going to be out for most of the afternoon but am going to fiddle around a bit for the next hour or two
[2025-01-26 10:43 AM] rsulfuratus: so i'll merge sometime this morning
[2025-01-26 10:45 AM] rsulfuratus: make sure you push any in-flight changes on the new-region-format branch that you want to keep
[2025-01-26 10:45 AM] Deciusmus: all pushed last night
[2025-01-26 11:40 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm doing some cleanup. what is your opinion about stashing blank pages in staging vs just having stubs in main gazetteer?
    
    my preference is to have unnamed places and places without frontmatter in staging, and move stubs that have (a) a name and (b) frontmatter to the correct folder
    
    but relatively weak preference
[2025-01-26 12:04 PM] Deciusmus: I was using staging for unnamed ~ pages and liked it
[2025-01-26 12:04 PM] Deciusmus: But no strong preference
[2025-01-26 12:08 PM] rsulfuratus: okay. i'm taking a break from cosmology and doing some gazetteer cleanup, going to move all unnamed pages to staging for cleanup.
    
    i have a "backlinks in staging" _MoC doc to help figure out which staging pages are frequently linked to guide prioritization
[2025-01-26 08:43 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed an update to cosmology that reorganizes things a little - basically, the in-world scholarly critics of the concept of Echo Realms convinced me that the Feywild and the Dreamworld are central enough to move to the main "Multiverse" directory (once I have a chance to update them), and the rest of the "Echo Realms" are in the Demiplanes folder. 
    
    curious what you think - context of the note is relevant here
[2025-01-26 09:07 PM] Deciusmus: I looked briefly. I like the basic idea but didn’t really have the energy tonight to dig into it
[2025-01-26 09:08 PM] rsulfuratus: the challenge wih creating all kinds of variant planar classifications is we still need to pick one to organize files by
[2025-01-26 09:08 PM] rsulfuratus: but yeah no rush or anything. still working through various cosmology things anyway

