# Discord DM – 2025-10-17

[2025-10-17 08:54 PM] Deciusmus: Do you think lizardfolk are happy/eager to be integrated into human affairs or more likely to be a bit standoffish and wanting to keep to themselves?
[2025-10-17 08:55 PM] Deciusmus: I have a lizardfolk village near Asineau and my pc who is now the lord of Asineau really wants to try to incorporate the lizardfolk more into the regional economy and have a joint festival with them and stuff.  Im struggling a bit to decide how the lizardfolk who react
[2025-10-17 10:27 PM] rsulfuratus: i don't think they would necessarily be standoffish -- after all we have, even if perhaps unintentionally, established that lizardfolk often (though not always) live in close proximity to humans. and it seems like there should be a reason for that on some level, since there are clearly other lizardfolk communities that are far more distinct (e.g., the yeraad valley). 
    
    that said, i think the idea of being incorporated into "human stuff" would feel maybe a little weird to them? like, they wouldn't be offended about being asked about a joint festival, and would probably agree just because for one, why not, and also they probably like humans to an extent, and probably like (i guess this is Robin?). but i think they would see it as a favor to the humans and not something they'd get something out of, really? i'm not sure if that is clear. 
    
    as for the economy, there i think there is probably less interest. we developed a while ago a bunch of ideas about how lizardfolk view land and property and while it doesn't necessarily force conflict with humans i think they would see themselves as not really fitting into the human world.
    
    i think there is a sense that mutually beneficial trade is nice, but also the lizardfolk are not halflings and in large part they are self-sufficient and have little or nothing to gain from being part of the human economy.
[2025-10-17 10:27 PM] rsulfuratus: anyone just some initial thoughts.
[2025-10-17 10:27 PM] rsulfuratus: going to bed but will be working on d&d a fair bit over the next week so can think more on this

