# Discord DM – 2025-01-15

[2025-01-15 10:09 AM] rsulfuratus: this is a slow week at work (all the students are mostly still on winter break), i'm pretty motivated to try to do a big cleanup to get our tagging system to accurately reflect the state of taelgarverse and clean up a few lingering tag conflicts
[2025-01-15 10:09 AM] rsulfuratus: a few questions incoming
[2025-01-15 10:14 AM] rsulfuratus: (1) our current descriptive tag system feels pretty good, except:
    - subtags still linger in some places. for items and organizations they are used inconsistently and incompletely. for religions and pcs they are mostly/entirely complete. 
    - we have both event and event-source and it isn't obvious what distinguishes them
    
    Question 1: is there any point in cleaning up subtags? it is quite easy to just delete a bunch. in most cases subtags have been superceded by typeOf, ancestry, and various related frontmatter. 
    
    Question 2: do you remember the distinction between event and event-source?
[2025-01-15 10:20 AM] rsulfuratus: (2) we have likely way too many things tagged with status, especially status/needswork, since at one point (before dm frontmatter existed) we used status/needswork to indicate a page was incomplete, not wrong. 
    
    Question 3: any opinions on the best way to quickly clean this up, especially for notes you wrote? I can just tag a bunch of stuff status/check/mike, perhaps easiest, but open to other ideas. probably going to blast through a lot of this this afternoon
    
    Question 4: do we need a status tag for "work in progress" that indicates a page is more complete than a stub but not "finished"? My inclincation is no, but open to ideas. Potentially this might be status/cleanup/wip, not status/needswork/wip. 
    
    My general feeling is status/needwork and status/check (page is wrong, not canon) should be ideally kept small and be high priority to fix, while status/cleanup and status/metadata can be whatever.
[2025-01-15 11:27 AM] Deciusmus: Question 1:
    
    Subtags are good for searching but are a bit of a pain to parse compared to typeOf/subTypeOf/etc for header generation. Arguably a subtag and a typeOf or subType really serve the same purpose but we seem to have settled on custom frontmatter and it doesn't seem worth chaning.
    
    For me, I think I'd bulk delete organization subtags as looking at them I don't see the value.
    
    For items, I think there is value in having a subtag specifically for "mechanics" items, i.e. anything a player might get and where mechanics might make sense for it. I actually don't think the magical vs mundane distinction is useful. A distinction for "specific instance" vs "kind" might be useful as well, in the subtags. But otherwise, I think the list we have is not that useful
[2025-01-15 11:29 AM] Deciusmus: Naming is hard, but maybe something like
    
    item/equipment or item/equippable (for magical and mundane items for which playable stats would be sensible to make up)
[2025-01-15 11:30 AM] Deciusmus: although actually I think the implication of subtags is probably that everything should have one
[2025-01-15 11:32 AM] Deciusmus: So maybe we want 
    
    item/equipment
    item/vehicle
    item/material
    item/other
[2025-01-15 11:34 AM] Deciusmus: with the idea that "equipment" is pages for either a class ("drankorian sending stones") or a specific item ("Ewer of Liquid (Cleenseau)") that would make sense as PC equipment.
    
    vehicle is boats, skyships, barges, wagons, caravans, whatever
    
    material is substances and other raw materials ("coinage" might fit here)
    
    other is everything else
[2025-01-15 11:34 AM] Deciusmus: there could be an item/artifacts as well for legendary stuff that is in-theory equipment but isn't really viableto make up mechanics for but not sure if that is worthwhile
[2025-01-15 11:55 AM] rsulfuratus: re: subtypes:
    agree organization subtypes are useless; i will mass delete and change to typeOf if missing
    -
[2025-01-15 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus: agree items probably do want subtags. might need to think a bit on what. "specific instance" vs "kind" is useful, as is "equipment vs not"
[2025-01-15 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm not convinced vehicles should be "items"
[2025-01-15 11:58 AM] Deciusmus: re: vehicles - fair, probably something that could reasoonably have a different top level; that said, there is javascript work for getting headers right for a new top-level that might not be worthwhile
[2025-01-15 11:59 AM] Deciusmus: re: specific instance vs kind  and "equp vs not" - I don't love having multiple subtags - although maybe that is fine? so I was leaning in on "equp vs not" as more useful
[2025-01-15 11:59 AM] Deciusmus: but maybe just having
    
    item/specific
    item/kind
    item/equipment
    item/other
    
    is sufficient? and items would generally have 2 tags
[2025-01-15 12:00 PM] rsulfuratus: hmm. actually now kind of wondering what we are going to use those subtags for, exactly
[2025-01-15 12:02 PM] Deciusmus: for me specifically, I am trying to move away from D&D Beyond for various reasons in my game, and was going to use item/equipment to find mechanics to cleanup/port into obsidian.
    
    But on typing that out, it is much more obviously just a status/cleanup/mechanics
[2025-01-15 12:03 PM] Deciusmus: So I guess, maybe kill item subtags for now as well?
[2025-01-15 12:05 PM] rsulfuratus: if we were going on another round of javascript work to improve headers, you probably want three things:
    (1) specific equipabble items, whether unique or specific named instances of a particular thing (e.g., Crown of Purity, Ewer of Liquid (Cleenseau), Apollyon's Crystal Ball, Eudomes' Enchiridon of the Occulta Ludum)
    (2) generic "things that exist in the game", which might be: books (A Fool's Fortune), materials (adamantine), generic kinds of magic or mundane items (Urskan Dragonhide Armor).
    (3) vehicles
[2025-01-15 12:05 PM] rsulfuratus: but that would probably involve a lot of tag updates and possibly promoting things to top level tags, so i think i agree existing item subtags are useless
[2025-01-15 12:05 PM] Deciusmus: an alternative would be to make 3 subtags
[2025-01-15 12:06 PM] Deciusmus: items/equipment
    items/vehicles
    items/other
[2025-01-15 12:06 PM] Deciusmus: the javascript doesn't care about subtags, and it means the data is organized if we ever did want to do the javascript header work
[2025-01-15 12:06 PM] rsulfuratus: ah, hmm, that's not a bad idea
[2025-01-15 12:07 PM] Deciusmus: and being able to look at all items/other in isolation might also inspire some further organization
[2025-01-15 12:07 PM] rsulfuratus: right, so in this categorization equipment is not precisely equipment, but rather "something you could list on your character sheet"
[2025-01-15 12:07 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-01-15 12:09 PM] Deciusmus: there is a rough edge around generic items, i.e. horn of silent alarm or drankorian message stones
[2025-01-15 12:09 PM] Deciusmus: or scroll of storykeeping
[2025-01-15 12:10 PM] rsulfuratus: so at the moment i have decided against having pages for the specific instances of these things
[2025-01-15 12:10 PM] Deciusmus: right, I just mean are they items/equipment or items/other
[2025-01-15 12:10 PM] rsulfuratus: i think items other
[2025-01-15 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: right so "items/equipment" means "a page for a specific thing"
[2025-01-15 12:11 PM] rsulfuratus: the page is clearly written about the class of items. if there was a page for "Delwath's Horn of Silent Alarm" that would be item/equipement
[2025-01-15 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-01-15 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: makes sense
[2025-01-15 12:12 PM] rsulfuratus: the tricky ones are actually things like the mirror of the past, which i haven't decided if it is a generic item or a specific item unique to eudomes. but the page is clearly written about a specific item, so it gets item/equipment, and if this becomes a generic class of things then there are two pages, one for Eudomes' mirror of the past and one for Mirrors of the Past (in general)
[2025-01-15 12:13 PM] rsulfuratus: i already did a lot of refactoring at one point to clean this up so I think it is actually pretty straightforward to tag the page as written as either a specific thing (equipment) or a generic class (other)
[2025-01-15 12:19 PM] Deciusmus: On question 2: event vs event-source. The original idea was that event-source could be added to OTHER pages that had tagged events in (DR:: yyyy) format to build automatic timelines
[2025-01-15 12:19 PM] Deciusmus: whereas event is a "page categorization" tag
[2025-01-15 12:19 PM] Deciusmus: but I'm not sure if I ever finished the code for that and I'm not sure it really works
[2025-01-15 12:20 PM] rsulfuratus: ah, okay. that is worth keeping though. so anything that has another tag already should be event-source, anything that is an event should be event
[2025-01-15 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: I actually am not sure it is worth keeping, as the code I have right now doesn't seem to use it
[2025-01-15 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: it just looks for lists with DR values
[2025-01-15 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: across all pages
[2025-01-15 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: you can look at Events\1700s\1700s
[2025-01-15 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: to see it working
[2025-01-15 12:22 PM] rsulfuratus: ah, okay. then yeah i'll delete event-source and just recatogize anything that doesn't have a top level tag
[2025-01-15 12:22 PM] Deciusmus: that 1700s page is actually pretty cool although it is slow to load
[2025-01-15 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: have a meeting in 6 minutes but one more question on categorization tags to wrap that up. religion is the other tag that has (i think complete) subtags. seems kind of useful to keep these? or better to just convert to frontmatter? i'm fairly agnostic although slightly inclined to keep
[2025-01-15 12:26 PM] Deciusmus: I would keep those
[2025-01-15 12:26 PM] Deciusmus: I like being able to get all the mosnumena stuff
[2025-01-15 12:42 PM] Deciusmus: On status/needswork and status/wip stuff.
    I think what we discussed last night makes sense, which to formalize, should be something like:
    
    The original page author should keep it as status/stub until they are happy enough with the basic info. We don't have any specific rules on when you change it away from stub - it could be after adding header, it could be after adding a sentence, it could be after doing more. 
    
    But that means pages with status/stub should be considered basically as "not yet real" at some level (and should be high priority to fix, and should always have a dm_owner)
[2025-01-15 01:01 PM] Deciusmus: So I think broadly that would mean something like...
    
    **status/stub**
    Page is missing stuff the page author thought was critical, and should be considered non-canonical. Should always have a dm_owner. 
    
    **status/update**
    The page was accurate at some point, but in game events have caused it to be out of date. Should generally have a dm_owner and should be fixed as a priority.
    
    **status/needswork**
    The information on the page is contradictory or wrong (not just incomplete) and the page should be considered non-canonical. May not have a dm_owner and may be particularly common on big topic "shared" pages. Should be categorized as to the source of the "correct information": internal (other pages), external (private notes), shared (discord chat, email).
    
    **status/metadata**
    The metadata info is missing, out of date, or could use improvement. The page is accurate though, although for example the current whereabouts might be wrong. Often won't have a dmowner but ideally would have a note as to what is wrong or missing. Subtags are not canonical and we might use different ones.
    
    **status/check**
    Some specific fact or part of the page needs confirmation but in general it is accurate. Should not be used when a page still needs work.
    
    **status/cleanup**
    The page is good enough for in game use, but something about it is lacking or could be improved or fixed.
[2025-01-15 01:08 PM] Deciusmus: A few questions and notes:
    (a) do we need a status/needswork/decision or status/needswork/canon to indicate that the page is blocked waiting on deciding whether something is true or not?
    (b) do we need a status/needswork/old or status/needswork/outdated to indicate that although there has been no specific conversation, the page feels like it doesn't reflect current thinking? (i.e. the issue isn't that there are notes or discussions that contradict the page, but just it feels inaccurate/wrong?)
[2025-01-15 01:09 PM] Deciusmus: (c) is there value in "canonical" subtags under cleanup? In particular, is **status/cleanup/internal** valueable to indicate that all information is in the page or its backlinks but that the page itself might need work to rewrite and so on
[2025-01-15 01:23 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure we need a predefined set of status/needwork subtags. i do think status/needswork/old and status/needswork/decision might be useful. my goal is to get the status/needswork number down to those pages that are actually incorrect and then it might be more obvious what we need
[2025-01-15 01:24 PM] Deciusmus: Right, that seems reasonable
[2025-01-15 01:24 PM] rsulfuratus: I do like status/cleanup/internal a lot
[2025-01-15 01:24 PM] rsulfuratus: although again i'm not sure it is obvious until we get the tagged cleaned up in the first place
[2025-01-15 01:24 PM] rsulfuratus: e.g. if there are 10 pages that "deserve" status/cleanup it might not be worth subtags
[2025-01-15 01:25 PM] Deciusmus: Right. So in the top level list above, the only one that isn't clear to me is "metadata"
[2025-01-15 01:26 PM] Deciusmus: What is the difference between status/cleanup/whereabouts and status/metadata/header?
[2025-01-15 01:26 PM] rsulfuratus: nothing
[2025-01-15 01:27 PM] rsulfuratus: i kind of like status/metadata as a key for "non-writing cleanup"
[2025-01-15 01:27 PM] rsulfuratus: i think i argued we should have that separate because sometimes you don't feel like working on text but e.g. collating campaignInfor or whereabouts
[2025-01-15 01:27 PM] rsulfuratus: but it could arguably be a subtag of status/cleanup, i just don't like three-level tags
[2025-01-15 01:28 PM] Deciusmus: I think 3 level is valuabe here
[2025-01-15 01:28 PM] rsulfuratus: actually meant 4 level. e.g. status/cleanup/metadata/whereabouts
[2025-01-15 01:29 PM] Deciusmus: Ah, I wouldn't bother with that
[2025-01-15 01:29 PM] Deciusmus: either do
    status/cleanup/metadata or status/cleanup/whereabouts
[2025-01-15 01:29 PM] rsulfuratus: but maybe status/cleanup/metadata is better than status/metadata/header
[2025-01-15 01:30 PM] Deciusmus: I would say that nested lots of options under status/cleanup is fine...
    
    status/cleanup/metadata
    status/cleanup/map
    status/cleanup/whereabouts
    status/cleanup/image
    status/cleanup/internal
    
    all have pretty obvious meanings to me
[2025-01-15 01:31 PM] Deciusmus: as would say status/cleanup/campaigninfo
[2025-01-15 01:31 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah. maybe needs a generic status/cleanup/text as well
[2025-01-15 01:31 PM] Deciusmus: actually, status/cleanup/text probably makes more sense than status/cleanup/internal
[2025-01-15 01:32 PM] Deciusmus: I think the theory is that any page with dm_notes: none and no needswork tag is completely documented in obsidian
[2025-01-15 01:32 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 01:32 PM] rsulfuratus: i think at one point status/cleanup/internal = lots of comments to fix and status/cleanup/external = lots of backlinks to check
[2025-01-15 01:33 PM] rsulfuratus: but the distinction is probably meaningless
[2025-01-15 01:33 PM] rsulfuratus: from a tag point of view
[2025-01-15 01:33 PM] rsulfuratus: since dm_notes is more direct about "do you need outside information"
[2025-01-15 01:33 PM] Deciusmus: I think status/cleanup/external was a precursor to dm_notes
[2025-01-15 01:33 PM] rsulfuratus: ah yeah that was probably right
[2025-01-15 01:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm trying to get all the descriptive tags squared away now but then will turn to status tags unless i get unexpectedly busy this afternoon
[2025-01-15 01:34 PM] rsulfuratus: (i'm running office hours until 4, so far no one has shown up but that could change)
[2025-01-15 01:37 PM] Deciusmus: So I think what we are saying is basically 5 status tags:
    
    stub: original author still working; page is not "real" yet; should have dm_owner
    needswork: page is wrong
    cleanup: page is fine for in game use, but something is not quite good enough or is missing for it to feel "done". subtag might say what needs fixing.
    check: page is fine but something needs to be checked; subtag might say what needs checking
    update: page was good; now needs updates from ingame events
[2025-01-15 01:38 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 02:34 PM] rsulfuratus: finished cleaning up "status/cleanup":
    - a dozen or so status/cleanup/internal moved to status/check/mike with a note
    - about 100 with metadata cleanup needed, largely things I want to add campaignInfo for or that need whereabouts updating. i did not try to retag these
    - 22 in text that have various comments about rewriting
    - 13 in refactor that have various comments about refactoring necessary (refactor vs text is a judgement call)
    - the rest images or maps
[2025-01-15 02:38 PM] rsulfuratus: currently working on correctly splitting the refactor into cleanup/metadata and cleanup/text
[2025-01-15 02:40 PM] Deciusmus: As per the notes above, the difference between status/stub and status/cleanup/(whatever) is flexible, right? so i.e. the Ferrystones, if I didn't feel like writing something "nice" could just be status/cleanup/text, given the `%%` block of info contains everything I've made up?
[2025-01-15 02:40 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 02:41 PM] rsulfuratus: or honestly doesn't need a status tag at all imo. i would say:
    - status/cleanup/stub only if you have more infomration to add
    - status/cleanup/text if you think it should have a nice page but you don't want to write it now
    - no status if you don't think it needs a nice page
[2025-01-15 02:44 PM] Deciusmus: status/stub is still useful to prevent publication to taelgarverse it occurs to me
[2025-01-15 02:44 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 02:45 PM] Deciusmus: so that would be one reason for status/stub rather than no status or status/cleanup/text
[2025-01-15 02:49 PM] rsulfuratus: okay, finished status/cleanup
[2025-01-15 02:51 PM] rsulfuratus: looking at status/check. 
    - status/check/whereabouts assume can be merged with status/cleanup/whereabouts?
    - things that are status/check/mike and status/check/tim with note about reviewing for correctness. leave, or move to status/needswork/shared?
[2025-01-15 02:52 PM] Deciusmus: I was using status/check/whereabouts specifically for cases where I added whwereabouts but needed to check the dates
[2025-01-15 02:52 PM] rsulfuratus: can leave it
[2025-01-15 02:52 PM] Deciusmus: but moving to cleanup is fine if you'd prefer
[2025-01-15 02:52 PM] rsulfuratus: don't care, just checking on intention
[2025-01-15 02:53 PM] Deciusmus: status/needswork to me implies more work than just reading something
[2025-01-15 02:53 PM] Deciusmus: so for example Kestavo is probably status/needswork/shared
[2025-01-15 02:54 PM] Deciusmus: Twilight Court maybe just stays status/check/mike+tim
[2025-01-15 02:57 PM] Deciusmus: I pushed a few checkmike cleanups
[2025-01-15 03:01 PM] Deciusmus: I pushed a bunch of status/check/mike fixes
[2025-01-15 03:03 PM] Deciusmus: I also fixed all my status/needswork/wip pages to be status/stub or status/cleanup/text depending
[2025-01-15 03:05 PM] Deciusmus: is the idea that dm_owner: none, dm_notes: color - we will know who has the notes?
[2025-01-15 03:06 PM] rsulfuratus: it isn't perfect but i think the idea is it is more useful to communicate lack of future plans/ownership, and we should be able to figure out who has the notes without too much trouble
[2025-01-15 03:06 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, makes sense
[2025-01-15 03:06 PM] rsulfuratus: for stubs makes sense to always have dm_owner (and change once stub tag is removed if needed), since a stub is hard to use without talking to page author for details
[2025-01-15 03:07 PM] Deciusmus: what are we doing for status on pc pages?
[2025-01-15 03:08 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not sure. some of them are obviously stubs; others are complete-ish. in general it is not obvious exactly how much information should be captured on a pc page
[2025-01-15 03:09 PM] rsulfuratus: esp because how they are used varies from person to person and campaign to campaign
[2025-01-15 03:10 PM] rsulfuratus: i would probably say either:
    - stub, if they are obviously incomplete
    - more or less permanent status/update, if they are being actively updated as part of a campaign
    - no status if they are complete enough for reference and used primarily for e.g. backstory
[2025-01-15 03:11 PM] rsulfuratus: in all cases should have: 
    - dm_owner: player
    - dm_info: important
    
    except for guest players who explicitly turned over their pc to the dm, where dm_owner can be the correct dm
[2025-01-15 03:11 PM] Deciusmus: so say looking at my 3 ausson's crossing pcs, it should probably be no tag (Izar), and stub on the other two
[2025-01-15 03:12 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 03:15 PM] Deciusmus: hrm, here's one - Caulaus
[2025-01-15 03:15 PM] Deciusmus: the page is fine, but there is some worthwhile information in email that would be good to migrate to discord. I guess it is dm_notes: color?
[2025-01-15 03:16 PM] Deciusmus: rather than needswork?
[2025-01-15 03:16 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 03:16 PM] Deciusmus: and Artem would be dm_notes: important, dm_owner: shared
[2025-01-15 03:16 PM] Deciusmus: say?
[2025-01-15 03:16 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 03:17 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm putting all the kestavo pages as status/needswork/old
[2025-01-15 03:17 PM] Deciusmus: Caulaus would be dm_owner: none (as opposed to Artem) because I don't actually care about him in the same way. Or should I set you as dm owner?
[2025-01-15 03:18 PM] rsulfuratus: he actually will likely resurface shortly. put dm_owner: tim for now
[2025-01-15 03:20 PM] Deciusmus: ok, I gotta focus on work for a bit but I think I got most of "my" pages with status/needswork/external or status/needswork/wip  to something more sensible
[2025-01-15 03:21 PM] rsulfuratus: I think the check stuff is all cleaned up now too. will tackle status/needswork now. no one has shown up to office hours
[2025-01-15 03:26 PM] Deciusmus: honestly a very useful thing to do with be for you to set dm_owner where it is missing
[2025-01-15 03:26 PM] rsulfuratus: also working on that
[2025-01-15 05:15 PM] Deciusmus: cleaning up a few check/mike's....
    
    What is the right way to capture "I have a few thoughts on color, but nothing recorded, and nothing that I care that much about"
[2025-01-15 05:15 PM] Deciusmus: dm_owner: none, dm_notes: color?
[2025-01-15 05:15 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-15 05:17 PM] Deciusmus: a page where 
    (a) I have made up important details in game
    (b) I would like to have a better page
    (c) the existing minimal info on the page is correct
    
    dm_ower:mike, dm_notes: important, status/cleanup/text?
[2025-01-15 05:18 PM] rsulfuratus: status/cleanup/text vs status/stub is a fairly arbitrary line, i think up to the author which is a better vibe
[2025-01-15 05:18 PM] rsulfuratus: i guess maybe most important decision is if you want minimal information on page published or not
[2025-01-15 05:18 PM] Deciusmus: in this case (the Duchy of Wisford) I'd like the page to be published
[2025-01-15 05:26 PM] Deciusmus: what about:
    (a) I have made up important details as part of creation of history
    (b) that might not be super well documented in Obisidian
    (c) but I'm not sure how much it matters if they are canonical as they haven't really come up in game
    (d) but I like the details, at least as a starting point
    
    is that dm_owner: none, dm_notes: important?
[2025-01-15 05:28 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, i think in general "dm_notes: important / dm_owner: none" is a fairly clear signal of that kind of vibe
[2025-01-15 05:29 PM] rsulfuratus: that kind of thing is probably a fairly high priority to copy as a comment to the note in question, fwiw
[2025-01-15 05:42 PM] Deciusmus: Zimkova is an interesting page...
    
    there is lots of details we've discussed few of which are incorporated into the page, but at the same time, nothing on the page is wrong per se, and nothing has come up in my game or my private notes
[2025-01-15 05:42 PM] Deciusmus: dm_ower: shared, dm_notes:important?
[2025-01-15 05:43 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i think that makes sense.
[2025-01-15 05:45 PM] rsulfuratus: my inclination is to lean against status/needswork unless the page really is bad to use, but the distinction between:
    
    - no status
    - status/cleanup
    - status/stub
    
    is a bit arbitrary
[2025-01-15 05:45 PM] rsulfuratus: capturing dm_owner: shared / dm_notes: important is the key thing to mark as "there are shared docs about this"
[2025-01-15 05:46 PM] Deciusmus: I agree with the cavaet that for places in particular that definitively exist with a name, getting rid of status/stub is valuable
[2025-01-15 05:46 PM] Deciusmus: as I see status/stub as basically "I'm not done making the initial page"
[2025-01-15 05:47 PM] rsulfuratus: i have a decent number of things that are status/stub because i have a lot of DM notes so a one-sentence page is kind of misleading
[2025-01-15 05:47 PM] rsulfuratus: the downside is those take a lot of time to clean up individually
[2025-01-15 05:47 PM] rsulfuratus: there are also things like sembara which I set as a stub because there is literally just a map in public text
[2025-01-15 05:48 PM] rsulfuratus: but it would take a few hours to really make a solid page
[2025-01-15 05:48 PM] rsulfuratus: so maybe we need another tag for that
[2025-01-15 05:49 PM] rsulfuratus: or maybe that should actually be needswork
[2025-01-15 05:50 PM] rsulfuratus: Chardonian Empire is in the same boat
[2025-01-15 05:51 PM] rsulfuratus: current stubs with more than 20 backlinks:
    ```
    File311    Folder    Backlinks
    Humans    Species/Children of Divine Creation    380
    Sembara    Gazetteer/Greater Sembara    207
    Great War    Events/1500s    130
    Chardonian Empire    Gazetteer/West Coast    62
    Deno'qai    Groups/Cultures    39
    Hkar    History/Pre-Downfall    26
    Govir    People/Dunmari    22
    Embry    Gazetteer/Greater Sembara    21
    Ra'ghemdros    People/Other Nonhumans    20
    ```
[2025-01-15 05:51 PM] Deciusmus: ortant does a lot of work. Something like the page on the Chardonian Legion
[2025-01-15 05:51 PM] Deciusmus: oops
[2025-01-15 05:51 PM] Deciusmus: ignore that
[2025-01-15 05:52 PM] Deciusmus: I think that it is potentially worth having a tag for "project" pages
[2025-01-15 05:52 PM] Deciusmus: that is, a page like Sembara or Chardonian Empire that would take significant time and effort to write up, but that should be written up
[2025-01-15 05:54 PM] Deciusmus: but for something like the Great War, why is that status/stub?
[2025-01-15 05:54 PM] rsulfuratus: I have a ton of notes
[2025-01-15 05:54 PM] rsulfuratus: But maybe doesn’t need to be
[2025-01-15 05:54 PM] Deciusmus: right, but isn;t dm_notes:important sufficient?
[2025-01-15 05:55 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah maybe. There are a handful of pages that were needswork that I moved to stub for now
[2025-01-15 05:56 PM] rsulfuratus: But probably will move out again once I look more closely
[2025-01-15 05:56 PM] Deciusmus: right, I mean transitorily, good to move to stub as a landing spot. I did the same with some needswork/wip
[2025-01-15 05:56 PM] Deciusmus: But I think it is highly valueable to turn stubs into non-stubs, and it should never need more than 10-15 minutes
[2025-01-15 05:57 PM] rsulfuratus: My order of operation is (1) fix needswork (2)  add dm front matter, (3) deal with stubs, (4)! Deal with update
[2025-01-15 06:00 PM] Deciusmus: I think a landing place for needswork and stubs that indicates: "this page is accurate but missing significant stuff and it deserves more work" is useful
[2025-01-15 06:01 PM] Deciusmus: Hkar is a good example.
    
    Adding a single sentence like
    
    Hkar is known as the possibly mythical place of creation of humanity, and humanities first homeland. It is said to have sunk during the [[Downfall]]
    
    feels like it captures the essential info about hkar for a player in my game, for example
[2025-01-15 06:03 PM] Deciusmus: but obviously there is a ton of stuff about hkar in the "world-lore" in our heads (mostly yours) and in a lot of random other docs in obisidian, and a useful project would be to pull that together into a better page.
    
    but I don't think Hkar should stay a stub until that project is done
[2025-01-15 06:03 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah something like a could use improvement tag
[2025-01-15 06:05 PM] rsulfuratus: Maybe just cleanup/incomplete would be fine
[2025-01-15 06:05 PM] Deciusmus: I like that
[2025-01-15 06:05 PM] rsulfuratus: status/cleanup as a catch all for anything that someone wants to
    Improve in some way is kind of nice actually
[2025-01-15 06:06 PM] rsulfuratus: Probably should also use cleanup/update when there are non-critical session updates and keep status/update for things like “Apollyon is dead now”
[2025-01-15 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: yeah
[2025-01-15 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: status/update maybe is even wrong, maybe it is status/needswork/gameevents
[2025-01-15 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: vs status/cleanup/gameevents
[2025-01-15 06:07 PM] Deciusmus: (or update instead of gameevents)
[2025-01-15 06:07 PM] rsulfuratus: Yeah that right
[2025-01-15 06:29 PM] rsulfuratus: adding `status/needswork/continuity` for things that have the right vibes but might have continuity errors and should not be relied on. could have this as `status/check/continuity` instead, don't have strong feelings
[2025-01-15 06:59 PM] rsulfuratus: `status/update` now just has PCs, which might need a new status home? created some more `status/check/mike`
[2025-01-15 07:00 PM] rsulfuratus: right now have:
    - 102 check
    - 226 cleanup
    - 70 needswork
    - 320 stub
    - 10 update (PCs)
[2025-01-15 07:00 PM] rsulfuratus: going to try to remove stubs first if there are easy ones, and do dm_notes, and then maybe look at check/cleanup
[2025-01-15 07:31 PM] Deciusmus: I am not sure that PCs need special treatment
[2025-01-15 07:34 PM] Deciusmus: That is, isn't dm_owner: player, dm_notes: important doing all the work? If the PC is in an active game, one of us is running the game, and can change the status to status/needswork/gameupdate if needed.
[2025-01-15 07:35 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i guess i just need to think a little about how i actually use pc pages
[2025-01-15 07:36 PM] Deciusmus: maybe status/active is good for PC pages that are actively being played for right now
[2025-01-15 07:36 PM] Deciusmus: the biggest value is actually distinguishing between PC pages that are "historical" or where the game is over or otherwise potentially more npc-like, vs those that are active PCs
[2025-01-15 07:36 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i like taht
[2025-01-15 07:36 PM] rsulfuratus: `*`that
[2025-01-15 07:37 PM] Deciusmus: honestly, status/active isn't crazy for major NPCs either. For example Odo Cordorwaner is a pretty active NPC who has a character sheet and comes along with the party sometimes
[2025-01-15 07:55 PM] rsulfuratus: made this change and pushed
[2025-01-15 07:56 PM] rsulfuratus: going to try to clean up stubs for a bit to reduce the number
[2025-01-15 07:57 PM] Deciusmus: just pushed some status/mike fixes
[2025-01-15 08:04 PM] Deciusmus: what is your thought on event pages for "minor" events? i.e. the spider attack page
[2025-01-15 08:04 PM] Deciusmus: better to just link into session notes?
[2025-01-15 08:06 PM] rsulfuratus: i think event pages are most useful for things that either would gather a lot of backlinks and are central enough to write a narrative that is more general, or span multiple sessions
[2025-01-15 08:07 PM] rsulfuratus: for Dunmar Campaign I have mostly only made event pages for multi-session things, and that highly inconsistently
[2025-01-15 08:07 PM] rsulfuratus: but, e.g. The Battle for Uzgukar despite `<1 session is worth having imo
[2025-01-15 08:08 PM] Deciusmus: separate question: a page like Jaques Bellemont (the duke of wisford) is quite light on details, but the 2 sentences that are there are fine. I wrote the page before he came up in play and now there is a lot more world info about him
[2025-01-15 08:09 PM] Deciusmus: I had the tag as status/update, but is it better to just do no status and dm_notes: important?
[2025-01-15 08:10 PM] Deciusmus: I think yes, right?
[2025-01-15 08:11 PM] rsulfuratus: for context, i put:
    - Fausto ->` status/needswork/gameupate
    - Casian ->` status/cleanup/gameupdate
    - Kaeso ->` no status (well, metadata cleanup), dm_notes: important
[2025-01-15 08:12 PM] rsulfuratus: my logic is basically:
    - Fausto's death is a major world event and upends a lot of things in Chardon, and I want to capture that
    - Casian needs a bit of text cleanup to make the note properly reflect his last adventure and death but doesn't really affect his usability and he has a died frontmatter
    - Kaeso although developed a lot is really still just a "minor but relevant Dunmar Frontier NPC"
[2025-01-15 08:14 PM] rsulfuratus: but i think it is always going to be a judgement call for the page author,
[2025-01-15 08:15 PM] Deciusmus: sure
[2025-01-15 08:15 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not totally sure what the different between cleanup/gameupdate and dm_notes: important is
[2025-01-15 08:18 PM] rsulfuratus: I mean I have several pages with both
[2025-01-15 08:19 PM] rsulfuratus: status/cleanup can be kind of a task list, doesn’t have to be controlled completely. For me cleanup/gameupdate is mostly for notes I wrote and then events changed context and I want to remember to update the note
[2025-01-15 08:20 PM] rsulfuratus: Whereas dm_notes: important might not be a high priority to update
[2025-01-15 08:38 PM] Deciusmus: pushed a bunch of status/mike cleanups
[2025-01-15 08:41 PM] Deciusmus: I'm looking at status/needswork/shared and moving to status/cleanup/incomplete when the only reason it seems to be needs work is because it doesn't feel like enough for the important of the page
[2025-01-15 08:48 PM] rsulfuratus: there probably aren't too many of those but worth looking
[2025-01-15 08:53 PM] Deciusmus: for exmaple, Istabor Alliance
[2025-01-15 08:54 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not convinced what is written there is canonical, fwiw
[2025-01-15 08:55 PM] rsulfuratus: there was a lot of interesting discussion about isingue that hasn't propagated through the pre-Great-War politics of that area
[2025-01-15 08:55 PM] rsulfuratus: e.g., was it an alliance of city-states?
[2025-01-15 08:55 PM] Deciusmus: I guess maybe not
[2025-01-15 08:56 PM] rsulfuratus: we talked about kind of new england style governance and to me it feels like it might be more of a alliance as in Commonwealth than  as in "ancient Greek" or whatever the classic "group of city-states" is
[2025-01-15 08:56 PM] Deciusmus: true
[2025-01-15 08:56 PM] Deciusmus: maybe that's a bad example
[2025-01-15 08:57 PM] Deciusmus: a better example might be Treaty of Tyrwingha
[2025-01-15 08:58 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that could be just considered incomplete
[2025-01-15 08:58 PM] Deciusmus: that page is
    (a) accurate if light
    (b) has lots of off-page info and discussion
[2025-01-15 08:58 PM] Deciusmus: (c) the off-page info is all shared
[2025-01-15 08:58 PM] Deciusmus: (d) I have lots going on with Ethlenn so flagged it as dm_owner: mike even though it is kinda a shared event
[2025-01-15 08:59 PM] Deciusmus: but it is actually hard to capture the right status
[2025-01-15 08:59 PM] rsulfuratus: actually - side note - i kind of need to know what is going on with Ethlenn at the moment
[2025-01-15 08:59 PM] Deciusmus: for dunmar feywild arch or your addermarch game?
[2025-01-15 08:59 PM] rsulfuratus: particularly this: "Although Ethlenn herself has not been seen or heard for generations"
[2025-01-15 08:59 PM] Deciusmus: which moment
[2025-01-15 08:59 PM] rsulfuratus: is that true?
[2025-01-15 09:00 PM] Deciusmus: Ah
[2025-01-15 09:00 PM] rsulfuratus: for Dunmar / feywild politics in 1749
[2025-01-15 09:00 PM] Deciusmus: what note is that in?
[2025-01-15 09:00 PM] rsulfuratus: treaty of tyrwingha
[2025-01-15 09:00 PM] Deciusmus: ah thats in the `%%` bit
[2025-01-15 09:00 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah
[2025-01-15 09:01 PM] rsulfuratus: i wouldn't set it is cleanup/incomplete if there is dubiously canonical information even in the comments
[2025-01-15 09:01 PM] rsulfuratus: unless it is clearly indicated as "not necessarily canon"
[2025-01-15 09:01 PM] Deciusmus: right, I missed that
[2025-01-15 09:01 PM] Deciusmus: that is not canonical
[2025-01-15 09:02 PM] Deciusmus: the vibe I'm going for is...
    
    She obviously appeared and walked around and was very public about it around the time of Derik I's ascention to the throne and the founding of modern sembara
[2025-01-15 09:03 PM] Deciusmus: and probably or likely appeared one or two other times in the early blood years but haven't defined that
[2025-01-15 09:04 PM] Deciusmus: but in the last 100ish years she hasn't announced herself and paraded around Talofwern and held court
[2025-01-15 09:04 PM] Deciusmus: but it isn't like she is hidden or has not ever appeared to anyone
[2025-01-15 09:04 PM] rsulfuratus: but there are obviously plenty of fey that go back and forth, it isn't like she is hidden _in the feywild_, just doesn't really come to the material plane often
[2025-01-15 09:04 PM] Deciusmus: yes
[2025-01-15 09:05 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah, she holds court in Twilight's Grace all the time
[2025-01-15 09:05 PM] Deciusmus: and is not hidden at all
[2025-01-15 09:05 PM] Deciusmus: all the fey would have seen her, no problem
[2025-01-15 09:05 PM] rsulfuratus: separately, my impression has always been that -- for reasons undetermined -- she has a small domain with strict borders that she maintains (and is perhaps unusually strong for the size of her domain - not that those necessarily correlate), but her domain has never really shrunk/grown much in a long long time
[2025-01-15 09:06 PM] Deciusmus: yes definitely
[2025-01-15 09:07 PM] rsulfuratus: what is your take on her role in wider feywild politics. e.g., there is this unknown "bad fey place"  (Sharpspire) in the sentinels that leads to occasional strained cooperation between shimmersong and duskmire
[2025-01-15 09:08 PM] rsulfuratus: what does ethlenn think of that? does she go to the "Archfey parties" so to speak? (probably not real parties - but for example the Chanceweaver had people from Shimmersong at his court)
[2025-01-15 09:08 PM] Deciusmus: I don't think she ever leaves Twilight's Grace
[2025-01-15 09:09 PM] Deciusmus: except - rarely and not in a long time - to go to Tyrwingha
[2025-01-15 09:09 PM] Deciusmus: And I think she is somewhat unconcened with what happens outside her borders, although not *entirely* unconcerned. But I think she is more concerned with what happens in the mortal world than the feywild
[2025-01-15 09:10 PM] rsulfuratus: how about Umbreath? he has obviously expanded some into Amberglow territory, or at least what used to be minor realms associated with Amberglow, and he is at least concerned enough with his western borders to cooperate with Shimmersong
[2025-01-15 09:10 PM] Deciusmus: There is this idea of the Twilight Court, which is noted as unclear canon, but happy for it to exist if it is a relevant idea, which is imagined as a huge party she throws every 25 years or old, inviting all the powerful fey, that is elegant and fancy
[2025-01-15 09:11 PM] Deciusmus: Umbreath would totally travel anywhere he is invited; he was originally a master of games and ceremonies and craves glamor
[2025-01-15 09:11 PM] rsulfuratus: i think an interesting vibe for that would be for it to be kind of neutral ground. Ethlenn doesn't do feywild politics, so all the other archfey find her parties a safe place to do their own politicking
[2025-01-15 09:11 PM] Deciusmus: He is also ambitious and would love to build something to rival Ethlenn's domain
[2025-01-15 09:11 PM] Deciusmus: yeah, I was envisioning something like that
[2025-01-15 09:12 PM] rsulfuratus: when was the last Twilight Court in your game?
[2025-01-15 09:12 PM] rsulfuratus: or unclear?
[2025-01-15 09:12 PM] rsulfuratus: does it matter?
[2025-01-15 09:12 PM] Deciusmus: unclear
[2025-01-15 09:12 PM] Deciusmus: but if you want one in dunmar, grab it
[2025-01-15 09:13 PM] Deciusmus: doesn't matter and in fact the timing is pretty good
[2025-01-15 09:13 PM] rsulfuratus: i would definitely make Twilight Court canon. i think the feywild needs something like that and it is perfect for Ethlenn's vibe
[2025-01-15 09:14 PM] Deciusmus: I don't expect it is *exactly* every 25 years; 25 years before 1749 is 1724, which is close enough to my game I could plausibly have one, but also easily enough to say it was in 1718 or 1726 if needed
[2025-01-15 09:17 PM] rsulfuratus: separately: what to do for dm notes for things like Eastern Green Sea Region, where the page is basically a stub and I have dm notes for component pieces
[2025-01-15 09:20 PM] Deciusmus: I think if there is nothing important cross-regional Id say none
[2025-01-15 09:52 PM] rsulfuratus: dm_frontmatter for zimka? dm_owner: mike, dm_notes: ??
[2025-01-15 09:53 PM] rsulfuratus: last group w/o dm frontmatter
[2025-01-15 09:53 PM] Deciusmus: I don't have any particular dm notes
[2025-01-15 09:54 PM] Deciusmus: so - none
[2025-01-15 10:30 PM] Deciusmus: I'm about to go to bed, but I wonder if there is a better way than dm_notes: color to capture:
    * this is a minor place in an active game, so the vibe is likely changing and shifting as the game plays, and that might not be fully updated here
    
    Is that just dm_notes: color?
    
    It makes it hard to ever "finish" adding color notes
[2025-01-15 10:34 PM] Deciusmus: An example here is Tavoise or Beury. The notes are pretty complete at the moment but color is constantly being added

