# Discord DM – 2025-06-14

[2025-06-14 10:43 AM] rsulfuratus: pushed addermarch fey politics in brainstorming fyi
[2025-06-14 02:21 PM] Deciusmus: a few thoughts...
    
    Aure River Valley - I think there is space for one or two other lords with a similar vibe to the blue area in here, perhaps one between green and Serenveil, and one between blue and Serenveil.
    
    (I am going to be running an adventure at some point where the PCs are basically fleeing through the fey wild from Duskmire and it would be useful if there was more than just Serenveil's realm)
[2025-06-14 02:22 PM] Deciusmus: also what if main part of Addermarch is something like "The Wilds", an untamed and raw part of the fey wild with no ruler
[2025-06-14 02:23 PM] rsulfuratus: here is my slighty-more-fleshed-out Obsidian note
    
    
    (1) [[Lord Serenveil]]. An ally of [[Archfey Ethlenn]], although exactly how close an ally is not determined, and this may be more of a "joint enemies of [[Lord Umbraeth]] than anything else." Serenveil has his own interests in the Material Plane, and is the patron of a secret cult that involves many of the  [[de Brunes]] and possibly others. The details of this cult are unknown but may eventually become relevant to the Addermarch campaign. In any case, Serenveil is through the 1710s and 1720s actively working against Umbraeth's expansion. Territory in gray, below; red cross-hatches show active conflict with Umbraeth. 
    
    (2) [[Morlaith]], also known as Grymholt, the Briarheart, Keeper of the Thornweald, Lord of the Hidden Hollows. Morlaith is an ancient entity, a being perhaps predating even the arrival of [[Archfey Ethlenn]]. Once controlled more territory, but has gradually shrunk to claim now mostly the hills and river valleys of western Addermarch. Morlaith is very explicitly not interested in the Ethlenn/Umbraeth conflict, and generally sees humans as insignificant, not worth even thinking about as they last only a blink of an eye. Vibe is very much the kind of "old world European" classic fairy tale. Morlaith is deeply dangerous, but not in the way Umbraeth for example is actively investing in messing with humans. Many of the ancient standing stones around Addermarch may warn of Morlaith. 
    
    (3) [[Calanthe|Lady Calanthë]], Sentinel of the Setting Sun, is a close ally of [[Archfey Ethlenn]], who guards a realm congruent with the hills on the western border of Tyrwingha, in eastern Addermarch. Minimal details invented here.
[2025-06-14 02:24 PM] rsulfuratus: i think "The Wilds" is kind of the vibe I am going for between Duskmire, green area, blue area, and Darkfall incursions
[2025-06-14 02:25 PM] rsulfuratus: (and also to a lesser extent the green area itself / Morlaith, who would not be a "traditional" archfey)
[2025-06-14 02:25 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-06-14 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: but would be easy to put another Ethlenn ally between the green area and Serenveil, for example
[2025-06-14 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: and/or between blue and serenveil
[2025-06-14 02:26 PM] rsulfuratus: just depends on how many "allies of Ethlenn" are worth inventing and making distinct
[2025-06-14 02:26 PM] Deciusmus: I think having a close Ethlenn ally along the northern Aure makes sense.
[2025-06-14 02:27 PM] Deciusmus: And it is probably worth leaving some space for i.e. something undefined  between Serenveil and Morlaith, and leaving the northern borders of Serenveil's domain indistinct
[2025-06-14 02:28 PM] rsulfuratus: the fey adventure i'm writing is much more about Morlaith and "the Wilds" so the details of Ethlenn's allies are not so important
[2025-06-14 02:28 PM] rsulfuratus: it is relevant that Serenveil and Morlaith don't border each other, but whether this is wilds, another fey realm, or conflict zone, etc, doesn't really matter
[2025-06-14 02:30 PM] rsulfuratus: there is a possible history where Ethlenn originally arrives and "makes the night safe" or some vibe like, carving her domain out of what was once a much larger Morlaith-controlled area. the vibe of Morlaith is very much shrunken ancient power who is still dangerous but clearly from an older time
[2025-06-14 02:31 PM] Deciusmus: right that all makes sense
[2025-06-14 02:33 PM] Deciusmus: When I get around to inventing the details for the adventure I'm going to run, it will be my PCs trying to get to safety (either Twighlight's Grace or one of the blue realsm) from Duskmire. So having some space to put stuff other than Serenveil + Morlaith is good, although it is possible the adventure might be mostly through Morlaith's realm, for example. They will be 9th or 10th level so something powerful is not necessarily a problem
[2025-06-14 02:34 PM] Deciusmus: If you are set in 1715 this is less relevant, but the major plot that might impact this is something like...
[2025-06-14 02:37 PM] Deciusmus: Around 1716 Malach kills King Robert. At some point after this, but before October 1719, he makes a deal with Umbraeth.
    
    The original plan was that Malach will stir up some trouble on the southern border, and eventually find a way to ask Umbraeth for help defeating it. Umbraeth will pretend to be the savior of humanity, and will march up the Enst with his Duskhounds, fighting whatever bad thing Malach summoned, which Malach will force to flee to Tyrwingha.
    
    Tyrwingha will resist Umbraeth, of course, but Malach hopes enough Sembarans will see him as a savior to cause bloodshed between Sembara and Tyrwingha, and eventually civil war
[2025-06-14 02:37 PM] Deciusmus: Part of Umbraeth's payment for this plan was magic to permanently open the fey gate in Cleenseau wood
[2025-06-14 02:38 PM] Deciusmus: And the implication here would be that Umbraeth would likely be also making a strong push to conqueor Serenveil's domain, perhaps with Malach's help
[2025-06-14 02:38 PM] Deciusmus: By early 1720 this plan had fallen apart however
[2025-06-14 02:40 PM] Deciusmus: In part because whatever magic Malach used to summon the undead across the land had some negative impacts on Umbraeth's portals to Taelgar
[2025-06-14 02:40 PM] Deciusmus: And in part because Umbraeth was growing sincerely uncomfortable with all the undead
[2025-06-14 02:41 PM] Deciusmus: So at some point in early 1720 there was a split and Umbraeth decided to stop working with Malach, and launched his plan to force the gate open by sacrificing someone connected to Ethlenn
[2025-06-14 02:42 PM] Deciusmus: But his is still actively working against Serenveil. One of this allies in Aveil actually tried to kidnap and kill one of the de Brunes, who was rescued by my PCs
[2025-06-14 02:42 PM] rsulfuratus: right, i saw that somewhere in the notes although it is sometimes a bit hard to follow the plot
[2025-06-14 02:43 PM] rsulfuratus: i think i am pretty set on 1715 though so all of this would be after addermarch
[2025-06-14 02:46 PM] Deciusmus: Yes in 1715 it’s probably pre Malach entirely
[2025-06-14 02:46 PM] rsulfuratus: i think the key points would be:
    - Serenveil is an enemy of Umbraeth more than an ally of Ethlenn, but works with Ethlenn, of course. there is likely to be some kind of connection/development between Serenveil and Morlaith in my game, at least in terms of Serenveil wanting information about Morlaith, so it is useful for there to be something that prevents easy travel in the Feywild from Serenveil's realm to Morlaith
[2025-06-14 02:46 PM] rsulfuratus: (but what that is is undetermined)
[2025-06-14 02:48 PM] rsulfuratus: - Morlaith is a barrier to everyone, and somehow keeps the fringes of their domain as the Wilds, so that none of Umbraeth, Serenveil, or Ethlenn's lieutenants can fully expand into Addermarch and end up being confined to the edges. This keeps the "Addermarian Feywild" with the kind of old-world fairy tale vibe I want and makes it a longstanding area of conflict and trouble, which works for both campaigns I think
[2025-06-14 02:53 PM] rsulfuratus: in any case none of this is likely to come up in my game tomorrow and i'll push a bunch of notes soon
[2025-06-14 03:02 PM] Deciusmus: One thing re: Umbraeth is he is very interested in access to taelgar and it should be the case that the areas he controls have few portals. If serenveil has a portal somewhere that might be a key motivating factor in their conflict

