# Discord DM – 2025-10-06

[2025-10-06 03:18 PM] Deciusmus: A few random thoughts....

Delwath's biggest mechanical weakness is relatively crappy saves and not much to do about failed saves. He has other weaknesses (sword damage only so-so, not great speed) but has lots of ways to compensate for that (smite/+xdx spells and dim door/scatter).

From an "existing items" perspective, the biggest downsides are:
a) the shield is a very cool item, but it is a grab bag of a bunch of weak abilities, and as we've leveled up, the weak abilities often don't really feel worth using
b) the sword is mechanically somewhat weak, although Delwath has lots of ways of boosting damage so it doesn't need to be strong for effectiveness

But A + B together kinda make it feel like Delwath doesn't have an awesome iconic item.

I have no particular ideas on the best way to use the heartroot boost to address any of this at the moment, but thought I'd share.
[2025-10-06 08:52 PM] Deciusmus: Question: Can Arcane Eye be cast on the other side of a door or similar? It seems unclear to me from the rules, i.e. Clairvoyance has the same words as Arcane Eye ("Create a sensor within range")
[2025-10-06 08:52 PM] Deciusmus: I would swap ghostly gaze for Arcane Eye as it is more useful but not if I can't cast it on the other side of a door
[2025-10-06 08:57 PM] rsulfuratus: still have to have a line of effect so you can't place it behind total cover, but otherwise you don't need to be able to see the location
[2025-10-06 08:57 PM] Deciusmus: well, but does that mean you can't cast clairvoyance inside a tower?
[2025-10-06 08:58 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not totally sure that the right interpretation of the rules is you can't cast a spell inside a room. I think it is you can't target a creature
[2025-10-06 09:00 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah i think you are right. you aren't targeting anythign with either arcane eye or clairvoyance, you are creating a sensor
[2025-10-06 09:01 PM] Deciusmus: Once you cast it inside the room, it can't move somewhere else unless it can get through the wall. But I think the initial cast can be anywhere
[2025-10-06 09:01 PM] rsulfuratus: within 30 feet but yes
[2025-10-06 09:01 PM] Deciusmus: yes
[2025-10-06 09:58 PM] Deciusmus: this all reminds me that I could use exact dates for the ash storm thing, btw
[2025-10-06 11:33 PM] rsulfuratus: - after Avatus defeat, some isolated hobgoblin groups establish in this area, generally harried from the west by dwarves and the east by Isinguese, but generally find a few isolated places on the plateau and the forests below to survive - neither dwarves not Isinguese are actively at war. this is basically a rump of Avatus, which comes to be ruled by [[Revaka]]. 
    - lizardfolk return to the Aursen marshes in this time as well, but very lightly settled. there are much more extensive lizardfolk settlements east of Isingue
    - in run up to Great War, hobgoblin population expands under Cha'mutte's watch, and many of these hobgoblins form the core of the Southern Army
    - during Great War, plague never reaches within 100 miles of the plateau. hobgoblin total war mobilization. siege of isingue, etc. 
    - Battle of Motanga Pass - probably part of Great War; Stoneborn victory that routed hobgoblin rearguard and drove hobgoblins off the plateau
    - DR 1545 - DR 1555 refugees settle, mix of humans and lizardfolk from Isingue area. initially mostly along the Aursen mashes and upper plateau above the pass, and beginning to move a little bit north at times. this is when the heartroot is hidden.
[2025-10-06 11:33 PM] rsulfuratus: - DR 1555 - DR 1557  Three Kin's War, fought by humans/lizardfolk/stoneborn (with stoneborn as the dominate power) against hobgoblins. this is when three wells is established. 
    - DR 1560s - DR 1600s quiet, population slowly grows. hobgoblin raids from the south are a constant problem. rangers grow.
    - DR 1610s - final defeat of hobgoblins by Dunmar. trade begins to creep north. 
    - DR 1620s - DR 1630s. road regularly opened from Dunmar to Aursen, though few travel north of there and March is still quite dangerous. 
    - DR 1650s - DR 1680s - wave of settlement after hobgoblin wars end, especially in March of Andonne. road fully open to Sembara. 
    - DR 1670s - DR 1710s - much debate about politics - Isingue as past or future, etc. 
    - DR 1720 - War of the [[War of the Ashen Horde|Ashen Hoard]]. Mutual defense pacts and militias organized; alliance is refounded. this is when the "Refounded Aliliance" name is coined.
[2025-10-06 11:34 PM] rsulfuratus: but could shift +/- a few years, just has to be after the Rai/monks expedition
[2025-10-06 11:36 PM] Deciusmus: Right. But do you have any ideas on when the war was? Summer? Fall? Doesn’t matter?
[2025-10-06 11:39 PM] Deciusmus: My game is currently March 20 1720 (the Lich died March 14. 1720) and the PCs are entering some extended downtime in Cleenseau and then we have a few absences in Nov & Dec so I’m going to run a one shot before starting the long delayed feywild arc in Jan. 

I might mine the [[War of the Ashen Horde|ashen horde]] for one shot ideas depending on when it is and what details if any you have on it

