# Discord DM – 2025-11-11

[2025-11-11 10:12 AM] rsulfuratus: did we ever settle on a species for avatus? the frontmatter has human, but comments suggest maybe hobgoblin?
[2025-11-11 10:30 AM] rsulfuratus: also do you have any ideas about the relationship between hobgoblins and goblins, if any? the languages might need disentangling, although there are some game benefits to having a single language that is useful for speaking to more than one possible enemy species (though maybe if goblins are escaped fey, they speak a language derived from sylvan that is mutually intelligible?)
[2025-11-11 11:19 AM] Deciusmus: No. I kinda have mixed feelings
[2025-11-11 11:21 AM] Deciusmus: I wasn't overly worried about the naming issue as it just seems too confusing to try to change, even though really they are very different things.
    
    on language, I like the text we wrote in "Languages" doc about "Goblin":
    
    Goblin
    A term for a large number of related languages spoken by hobgoblins and their slaves and allies. Hobgoblin clans often invent secret languages for themselves, but a common creole, derived from the language spoken by Cha’mutte’s armies, is the closest thing to a common language. It is called katonylev (or “army tongue”) by speakers, but for most outsiders this is what is known as Goblin.
    
    Real world analog: Katonylev is based on Hungarian. Other hobgoblin languages may have diverse real world mappings.
    Alphabet: Hobgoblins and other goblinoids use a uniquely created Hobgoblin alphabet, which tends to be shared across languages.
    
    Except I'd rename it Hobgoblin.
[2025-11-11 11:21 AM] Deciusmus: I would then say that neither Kobolds nor Goblins have a native tongue, and they speak a variety of languages including Common, Hobgoblin (or "katonylev", more specifically), or Sylvan, or just a local human language depending
[2025-11-11 11:22 AM] Deciusmus: I had the kobolds who were running away speaking to the party in Common, partly because they explicitly didn't want to speak Draconic as they were afraid it might somehow summon or attract the attention of Krauzeth (not, I think, true, but...)
[2025-11-11 11:23 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah that makes sense
[2025-11-11 11:24 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm mostly just thinking from a game perspective - orcs and hobgoblins are "major" enough that there is often some value in a PC taking that language, but a massive proliferation of "enemy" languages probably gets frustrating pretty fast
[2025-11-11 11:24 AM] Deciusmus: I assume that "fanatics who workship Krauzeth" faction talk in Draconic, and the "run away" faction also knows Draconic
[2025-11-11 11:24 AM] Deciusmus: but also it would probably be pretty common for goblins to speak Hobgoblin, if there history was wrapped up with Cha'muttes armies
[2025-11-11 11:24 AM] rsulfuratus: but a good solution is there just isn't a Koboldish or Goblin tongue
[2025-11-11 11:26 AM] Deciusmus: Perhaps goblins are in fact material plane bound fey, but they were commonly slaves in Cha'mutte's armies specifically.
    
    There is no general "goblins were created to be hobgoblin slaves" but they were frequently enslaved during the Great War, which has lead to (a) some hobgoblins still culturally seeing themselves as "masters of goblins" and (b) a lot of goblin tribes still speaking hobgoblin
[2025-11-11 11:26 AM] rsulfuratus: yeah i kinda like that actually
[2025-11-11 11:52 AM] rsulfuratus: just fyi in case you pull and look at things, i'm working on the main species pages now. actually great use for codex but require a lot of cleanup. 
    
    i put the 14 "common species of the material plane" in the species folder, and tagged everything as status/cleanup/old
    
    once i do the first pass codex text generation, i'll switch tag to status/cleanup/ai
    
    once i finish integrating text and revising ai work, i'll switch tag to status/check/mike
    
    everything in the mechanics directory has a least the mechanics section finished in at least draft form; these should all either be status/cleanup/incomplete if they are not ready for review, and status/check/mike if they are
[2025-11-11 11:55 AM] rsulfuratus: fey follows same tagging. extraplanar and _unsorted are not consistently tagged
[2025-11-11 01:05 PM] Deciusmus: I bounced Creature Rules in Taelgar back to check/tim with a few minor changes
[2025-11-11 01:17 PM] rsulfuratus: i like the brainstorming about divinities. thinking about it a bit but might have more comments later. agree that the "extraplanar" part of "extraplanar powers" is not needed - material plane powers are certainly possible (and in fact this is probably the best classification for cha'mutte, who while had a strong connection to limbo, was certainly not a native inhabitant of limbo)
[2025-11-11 01:20 PM] Deciusmus: Did you intentionally not link merfolk or ilithid from the creatures of taelgar
[2025-11-11 01:20 PM] rsulfuratus: no
[2025-11-11 01:22 PM] rsulfuratus: i did intentionally not separate fey into species / non-species for the summary page, though of course anyone who goes poking around in taelgarverse will find this laid out
[2025-11-11 01:30 PM] Deciusmus: bounced back metaphysics with a few notes; I read creatures as well and just fixed a few typos and missing links so didn't bounce it back
[2025-11-11 02:04 PM] rsulfuratus: did you forget to push?
[2025-11-11 02:04 PM] Deciusmus: yes
[2025-11-11 02:04 PM] Deciusmus: did now
[2025-11-11 02:52 PM] rsulfuratus: cleared status tags - didn't see anything that felt like it needed discussion.
    
    i moved the brainstorming about divinities that was in a long comment to a talk page
    
    i also added this:  Note that the nature of the "gift of soulstuff" has to be flexible enough to allow Dewalth (elf who channels soulstuff from human gods) metaphysically possible.
[2025-11-11 02:53 PM] rsulfuratus: also halfling species page is done, so changed to status/check/mike
[2025-11-11 06:32 PM] Deciusmus: did you intend to keep the status scection at the bottom of playing a halfing? seems more appropriate on the halfing main page
[2025-11-11 06:44 PM] rsulfuratus: no, this should move, i just hadn't tackled any of the main pages and was making status notes
[2025-11-11 06:44 PM] rsulfuratus: should centralize all open questions and status notes, except design notes about mechanics, to the main species page imo
[2025-11-11 06:44 PM] rsulfuratus: just haven't done it yet
[2025-11-11 07:47 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm just pulling up random notes and fixing whatever strikes my fancy - trying to add good commit notes if you see cleenseau files changed. it is probably just like fixing spaces or something
[2025-11-11 07:47 PM] rsulfuratus: (interesting to read some of celyn's stories)
[2025-11-11 07:47 PM] rsulfuratus: (maybe i'll write some legends of zimkova for finnan to have on hand)

