# Discord DM – 2025-01-16

[2025-01-16 07:52 AM] rsulfuratus: i'm aiming to finish adding dm_notes before considering other options. however, i think setting status/active could be a reasonable option for those pages
[2025-01-16 08:10 AM] rsulfuratus: fyi a much faster way to add dm_notes than the MoC pages is in search:
    `-`["dm_owner"]` path:Gazetteer`
[2025-01-16 08:35 AM] rsulfuratus: 23 files left in gazetteer that need dm frontmatter, mostly Sembara or Istaros so for you to set
[2025-01-16 09:27 AM] Deciusmus: cleaned up all but 3
[2025-01-16 10:24 AM] rsulfuratus: have nearly finished dm frontmatter for all pages, but need to take a break now to work briefly. another super-quiet day though so will do more later.  I 've been tagging dm frontmatter for essentially every page, as I think it can be helpful, although obviously Campaigns is silly. a few notes incoming
[2025-01-16 10:27 AM] rsulfuratus: (1) for big meta pages, I generally default to none/none, except for things like the world map (dm_owner: tim), and a few other places where i care about the text specifically
    
    (2) for a lot of things (e.g., cosmology, time), the distinction between shared and none is a bit unclear. i have tried to used shared for things where there are active discussions about canon, none for things that are blank slates or settled. but may not have been perfectly consistent. fine to change things, just drop a check/tim
    
    (3) i have actually been finding tagging dm_owner in worldbuilding can be pretty helpful. since these are all dm_notes, i am trying to tag dm_notes: none unless there are additional brainstorming docs elsewhere, or i haven't fully written down my thoughts. (High School Notes are the exception, of course)
[2025-01-16 10:28 AM] rsulfuratus: (4) I've been going fast to just get things tagged so a few things may shift, but i feel pretty close to having a fairly complete "state of taelgarverse" system in place. just want to try to clean up stubs next
[2025-01-16 10:29 AM] Deciusmus: I have a meeting, but my quick though is that we are missing a good way to capture pages where there is active shared worldbuilding that isn't captured in the obsidian note
[2025-01-16 10:29 AM] rsulfuratus: i've been using dm_owner: shared, dm_notes: important for that
[2025-01-16 10:30 AM] rsulfuratus: or status/needswork/shared if the page itself is a mess
[2025-01-16 10:30 AM] Deciusmus: (I have to go pay attention to a meeting but then I'm heading into the office for a lunch so might share some thoughts from the train)
[2025-01-16 11:19 AM] rsulfuratus: ```
    dm_owner    dm_notes    count
    mike    color    78
    mike    important    47
    mike    none    57
    missing    missing    93
    none    color    202
    none    important    36
    none    none    346
    player    important    38
    shared    color    6
    shared    important    69
    shared    none    15
    tim    color    138
    tim    important    487
    tim    none    28
    ```
[2025-01-16 11:19 AM] rsulfuratus: (includes worldbuilding, which is where most of the missing/missing are from)
[2025-01-16 11:20 AM] rsulfuratus: I probably have a few too many tim/important
[2025-01-16 11:28 AM] Deciusmus: Is setting dm owner on Worldbuilding/Brainstorming useful?
[2025-01-16 11:31 AM] Deciusmus: i guess maybe it is
[2025-01-16 11:33 AM] Deciusmus: any reason not to just delete empty stub pages in brainstorming?
[2025-01-16 11:40 AM] Deciusmus: any reason not to move high school notes to Campaigns/Great War?
[2025-01-16 11:42 AM] rsulfuratus: empty stub pages in brainstorming should be deleted
[2025-01-16 11:42 AM] rsulfuratus: worldbuilding high school ->` Campaigns/Great War is a good idea
[2025-01-16 11:43 AM] rsulfuratus: i was distracted, working on a bunch of dataview tables (w chatGPT, surprisingly knows dataview pretty well) to better get as some of the data quality stuff, e.g. counts of typeOf details by descriptive tag, etc
[2025-01-16 11:58 AM] Deciusmus: Ok I pushed a bunch of stuff
[2025-01-16 11:58 AM] Deciusmus: A few thoughts from the train…
[2025-01-16 12:01 PM] Deciusmus: I think we have a handful of things that the current system makes hard to track..
[2025-01-16 12:03 PM] Deciusmus: (A) pages where there is a lot of useful discussion outside of obsidian (either in old google docs or email or discord) where it would be valuable to just copy that in
[2025-01-16 12:03 PM] Deciusmus: Actually the above is really the only example
[2025-01-16 12:04 PM] Deciusmus: More broadly though it is hard to tell if dm notes is supposed to be a “work list” or just a fact about the page.
[2025-01-16 12:05 PM] Deciusmus: Ie does dm_notes: color imply an intention to record the color in the note? Or is it expected that it would stay color forever and at some point the color gets lost or forgotten and we decide who cares and change to none?
[2025-01-16 12:07 PM] rsulfuratus: for me, dm_notes means one of three things:
    (1) I have ideas about this note I want to write down, but haven't
    (2) I have external notes about this I want to copy, usually e.g. something like description or roleplaying notes for people from OneNote (if color), but occasionally images; for important this would obviously be more critical details
    (3) I have DM notes in Obsidian I should clean up
    
    I think (1) is by far the least common
[2025-01-16 12:08 PM] rsulfuratus: in my ideal world, all of this would be copied into the page itself, either as public text, shared comments, or a secret
[2025-01-16 12:09 PM] rsulfuratus: so from that point of view, dm_notes to me implies a task list. but realistically a lot of this is likely never to get done, so it isn't like status/cleanup/incomplete
[2025-01-16 12:10 PM] Deciusmus: Right. For me I often set “color” on people who have come up in play but where there is no notes about their personality in obsidian. But I’ve often just improvised that so I don’t have other notes to copy in
[2025-01-16 12:11 PM] rsulfuratus: sure, that would be (1) in some sense
[2025-01-16 12:11 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah.
[2025-01-16 12:12 PM] rsulfuratus: but i also set e.g. dm_notes: none on some people (e.g., the Strongbones, the halfling family that ran an inn in Tokra) that I'm sure I improvised something about two years ago but they weren't important enough to write anything down so, whatever
[2025-01-16 12:12 PM] Deciusmus: Right
[2025-01-16 12:16 PM] Deciusmus: I’m almost at the office… but I wonder mostly about the shared and none dm notes.
[2025-01-16 12:17 PM] Deciusmus: 202 none/color seems like a lot for example
[2025-01-16 12:17 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that should probably be worked down
[2025-01-16 12:18 PM] rsulfuratus: there are a lot of none/color in People (106). a lot of those are people from early in the dunmar campaign i have notes on from onenote
[2025-01-16 12:19 PM] rsulfuratus: but have no particular attachment or plans for the person
[2025-01-16 12:19 PM] Deciusmus: I just wonder two additional categories might be useful…
    
    (A) discussions (name to be improved) which means that none of the dm notes are private and anyone who wants to dig through email discord etc and collate the notes on the page can flip to dm-notes: none
[2025-01-16 12:19 PM] rsulfuratus: most of those are pretty easy to just copy and paste my onenote note as a comment and set the dm_info ->` none
[2025-01-16 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: (B) vibes-(campaign) (also name to be improved) which means the person or place came up enough in a game that there are some useful vibes or roleplaying notes that could be shared but they are not important and probably are not worth writing down, so ask, but the answer might be “ I forget “
[2025-01-16 12:21 PM] Deciusmus: But maybe (b) should just be none?
[2025-01-16 12:23 PM] rsulfuratus: it is very useful to me to keep dm_notes focused on "how critical is the missing information". i think discussions, in particular, obscures that, because it could be color discussions or important discussions
[2025-01-16 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: vibes could be a useful gradient between none and color
[2025-01-16 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: i have a meeting in 5 minutes and have to actually work until around 3 but will think on this a bit, might have more thoughts later.
[2025-01-16 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: it does seem like we want to capture:
    (a) who, if anyone, has plans for something
    (b) who, if anyone, has notes about something
    (c) how critical are the notes
[2025-01-16 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: it is really the (b) that is missing. e.g., there are things tagged dm_owner: shared that are really more "there are shared notes" not "we both have independent plans"
[2025-01-16 12:27 PM] rsulfuratus: in any case, more later
[2025-01-16 12:28 PM] Deciusmus: Right. I was just thinking something similar.
[2025-01-16 01:42 PM] rsulfuratus: here is a proposal for an update to dm frontmatter, aiming to capture all three of the points above with two frontmatter items. 
    
    dm_notes remains the same: none, color, or important
    none = no information outside the page
    color = non-critical information outside the page 
    important = critical information outside the page
    
    it is fairly easy to expand this with more levels if we want (e.g., vibes between none and color), but i'm not sure it is necessary
    
    dm_owner gets overloaded to solve the issues with missing a way to capture "who has notes".  specifically:
    - if the dm_owner is a campaign (clee, dufr, addermarch, etc), or a combination of campaigns, that implies "some kind of important context for the specific campaign"
    - if the dm_owner is a person (tim, mike) or a combination of people (tim,mike), that implies "not active in a campaign but the person either (a) cares about the development of thing enough to want to be consulted, or (b) has unincorporated notes"
    - if the dm_owner is shared, that implies "subject to active joint development" - note the contrast with, say tim,mike. shared = joint notes, tim,mike or clee,dufr = each of us has independent dm notes.
    - if the dm_owner is none, implies no one has important future plans
    - if the dm_owner is meta, it is like none but implies a certain degree of centrality to the page
    
    in this setup, should not have dm_owner none or dm_owner meta unless dm_notes also is none. 
    
    things that have color notes but no future plans should be dm_owner (name) and dm_notes color, for example. 
    
    dm_owner shared should only be used when the dm_notes are shared; if we both have independent development should be dm_owner mike,tim. 
    
    things could be dm_owner clee,tim for example, but ideally these should be rare.
    
    not sure this is perfect but idea might be worth iterating on
[2025-01-16 01:42 PM] rsulfuratus: from current system, would require:
[2025-01-16 01:44 PM] rsulfuratus: (1) changing dm_owner (name) ->` dm_owner (campaign)
    (2) adding dm_owner (name) to notes with dm_owner none and dm_notes != none
    (3) spending a little time reassigning dm_owner shared to either shared or some kind of combination
    (4) spending a little time reassigning dm_owner none to dm_owner meta
[2025-01-16 02:48 PM] Deciusmus: I like the basic idea, but I wonder if the distinction between person and campaign is too much.
[2025-01-16 02:49 PM] Deciusmus: To start, I think shared vs mike,tim is a good way to distinguish between a shared page vs we both have notes
[2025-01-16 02:54 PM] Deciusmus: I'm less sure about the campaign stuff...
[2025-01-16 02:56 PM] Deciusmus: The basic problem I think is that it kinda breaks the goal of dm_owner originally.
    
    If I see a page from Adderfell campaign with 
    
    dm_owner: tim
    dm_notes: color
    
    Does that mean
    
    (a) you have unincorporated color notes, but don't really care about the place/person 
    OR
[2025-01-16 02:56 PM] Deciusmus: (b) you have unincorporated color notes and DO care about the place/person
[2025-01-16 02:58 PM] Deciusmus: I also like dm_owner: meta - it is a good way to track "big" pages and is a nice constrast with shared, i.e.
    
    I would assume shared means = active conversations ongoing, or active conversations have happened in the past and are not incorporated in the notes
    meta means = restarting active development of this page probably needs at least a check/(other), but there is nothing active right now
[2025-01-16 02:59 PM] Deciusmus: and a dm_owner: shared could go from shared ->` meta or shared ->` none depending on the centrality of the page
[2025-01-16 03:04 PM] Deciusmus: my suggestion would be, to start:
    
    * review shared and move to mike,tim where correct
    * review none to tag meta where correct
    * review dm_owner none / dm_notes != none for cases where the right thing is shared (i.e. the notes are all shared)
[2025-01-16 03:04 PM] Deciusmus: Then re-review and see if adding a campaign flag vs a person flag makes sense
[2025-01-16 03:06 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, maybe the campaign stuff is too much
[2025-01-16 03:06 PM] Deciusmus: I'm not sure exactly, but it seems nicer to clean up dm_owner = none / dm_notes != none and dm_owner = shared first, and than look at what is left in the dm_owner = none, dm_notes != none
[2025-01-16 03:06 PM] rsulfuratus: right
[2025-01-16 03:07 PM] Deciusmus: I think there might be some value in a way to flag this as "i have notes but I don't care about the future of this page"
[2025-01-16 03:07 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah but might not need frontmatter. dm_owner = none, dm_notes = color could just be handled with a comment
[2025-01-16 03:08 PM] Deciusmus: but I also think that for notes = important, that is probably wrong. If you or I have important notes, it is probably wrong to not have dm_owner set - no one can use the page meaningfully as more than vague background without talking to the owner
[2025-01-16 03:08 PM] Deciusmus: (except for the dm_owner: shared as per above)
[2025-01-16 03:08 PM] rsulfuratus: only 36 pages with that configuration
[2025-01-16 03:08 PM] Deciusmus: so then we are left with none / color and the question becomes is it really worth caring about none/color
[2025-01-16 03:08 PM] rsulfuratus: of which 10 are needswork/stub/check
[2025-01-16 03:09 PM] Deciusmus: i
[2025-01-16 03:09 PM] Deciusmus: I'm in the office and have to go to a meeting but when I'm home I might look at the none/color to see what is there. I think I flagged a lot of stuff none/color
[2025-01-16 03:11 PM] rsulfuratus: these are none/important
    Divine Presence    complete
    High Gods    complete
    Land of the Dead    complete
    Battle of Metium    complete
    Battle of Shadowfire    complete
    Cleenseau Spider Attacks    complete
    Battle Against Wakog    complete
    Yemo'te    complete
    Copper Hills    complete
    Duchy of Sembara    complete
    Duchy of Telham    complete
    Erelion    complete
    Antaka    complete
    Western Gulf    complete
    Chronicles of the Mawar    complete
    Theba    complete
    Amay    complete
    Badya    complete
    Isha    complete
    Kisa    complete
    Nora Silverspark    complete
    Caelynn    complete
    Illaran    complete
    Godfrey of Marburgh    complete
    Azer    complete
    Scroll of Storykeeping    complete
[2025-01-16 03:11 PM] rsulfuratus: (excluding stub, needswork, check)
[2025-01-16 03:12 PM] rsulfuratus: it is kind of a random bunch of things. i think a lot of pages where i have a secret that doesn't need to be secret anymore (e.g., Badya, Theba, Kisa, Godfrey of Marburgh)
[2025-01-16 03:12 PM] rsulfuratus: those are easy to clean up
[2025-01-16 04:18 PM] Deciusmus: Ok, a few thoughts from the train back home…
[2025-01-16 04:23 PM] Deciusmus: What about reversing the meaning of a campaign dm owner, so that there are the following:
    
    (a) a campaign. The page was or is used in a campaign, and there is some information that came up in game (or in game prep) that isn’t incorporated - but the DM of that game has no further plans for the page. 
    (b) person - private information exists and the person has plans 
    (C) shared - all dm notes are shared 
    (D) meta - the page is of broad important and is probably more a joint creation
[2025-01-16 04:25 PM] Deciusmus: These can be combined, ie you could have 
    
    The Wyrdling
    dm_notes: important 
    dm_owner: meta, clee 
    
    That implies something important about the wyrdling came up in my game, and that major changes to the wyrdling should be pre-discussed
[2025-01-16 04:26 PM] Deciusmus: dm_owner: shared, meta
    
    On the other hand would imply that the important notes were in discord
[2025-01-16 04:27 PM] Deciusmus: Not sure though
[2025-01-16 04:28 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe forget the meta and shared stuff. But use owner = campaign as a shorthand for “the only notes are what I used in game”? Is that worth a special case?
[2025-01-16 04:31 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not convinced that the campaign part is useful, as opposed to dm_owner: none, dm_notes: color, and a comment with relevant info
[2025-01-16 04:32 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that your suggestion at 3:04 pm is still the right way to start
[2025-01-16 04:34 PM] rsulfuratus: basically:
    - name: that person or people has plans
    - shared: ongoing joint discussion
    - meta: central enough to be careful with major revisions (good for e.g. religions, world region pages)
    - none: no plans, not central
[2025-01-16 04:34 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I agree
[2025-01-16 04:36 PM] Deciusmus: I do think it is completely reasonable, if the only “missing info” from the page is from in game events, to tag status/needswork/gameupdate or status/cleanup/gameupdate and set dm_notes to none
[2025-01-16 04:36 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that makes sense
[2025-01-16 05:11 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed some MoC updates that should hopefully make sorting through things easier
[2025-01-16 05:11 PM] rsulfuratus: will do some more cleanup later tonight, going to Nathaniel's winter concert now
[2025-01-16 08:32 PM] rsulfuratus: looking at shared dm_owner.  I think the only ones that are really actually mike,tim (as opposed to shared or meta) are:
    - amberglow
    - duskmire
    - twilight's grace
    - twilight court
    - mostreve hills
    - the rangers
    - de brunes
    - dominion of avatus
    - vahaiya
    - pyravela
    
    maybe worth adding:
    - addermarch
    - tyrwingha
[2025-01-16 08:32 PM] Deciusmus: that seems right
[2025-01-16 08:33 PM] Deciusmus: I think Tyrwinghan and Addermarch are probably shared/meta
[2025-01-16 08:34 PM] Deciusmus: A few odd ones:
    
    Abelard
    Armand
    Artem Novolozek
[2025-01-16 08:35 PM] rsulfuratus: those are all basically joint inventions and i wasn't sure all the notes were captured
[2025-01-16 08:36 PM] rsulfuratus: artem for sure has a bunch of details that are missing
[2025-01-16 08:36 PM] Deciusmus: Actually, isn't shared meant to imply there are no private notes?
[2025-01-16 08:36 PM] rsulfuratus: yes, i don't think there are private notes for any of those. armand backstory is all in discord, artem in email. abelard less certain but i think email
[2025-01-16 08:37 PM] Deciusmus: I went through all the emails I could find, btw, and tagged them so I can pull them in
[2025-01-16 08:38 PM] Deciusmus: Do you think having raw copies of email threads in obsidian is valuable?
[2025-01-16 08:38 PM] rsulfuratus: yes
[2025-01-16 08:38 PM] Deciusmus: I mean, in worldbuilding or comments only, to be a source of stuff to mine and then delete
[2025-01-16 08:40 PM] Deciusmus: For Abelard, all I have on notes that isn't in obsidian is an image, which I am adding. Is it fair to say that for a page with dm_owner: shared if I add in all the emails or discord info I can find, it should become dm_owner: none, dm_notes: none?
[2025-01-16 08:40 PM] Deciusmus: (maybe with a check/tim)
[2025-01-16 08:40 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, i think that is correct
[2025-01-16 08:40 PM] Deciusmus: for some larger pages, maybe meta / none rather than none/none
[2025-01-16 08:42 PM] rsulfuratus: i think in general there is no reason to have a shared / none category, since the main point of shared is a way to mark "this is something that we have shared notes not captured, but it isn't central to the world or anyone's campaign"
[2025-01-16 08:42 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-01-16 08:42 PM] Deciusmus: agreed
[2025-01-16 08:43 PM] rsulfuratus: the only question is for things that have both ongoing discussion and some private notes (e.g., i made up a fair bit of mos numena backstory for the circular island that isn't incorporated yet), what do we tag them?
[2025-01-16 08:43 PM] rsulfuratus: is that meta,tim?
    just meta?
[2025-01-16 08:45 PM] Deciusmus: I think meta,tim
[2025-01-16 08:45 PM] Deciusmus: or shared,tim if there are active discussions that need to be pulled into obsidian (i.e. emails or discord or whatever)
[2025-01-16 08:46 PM] Deciusmus: although I'm not sure about that second one
[2025-01-16 08:49 PM] rsulfuratus: there are now only 91 shared notes after I moved the ones above to mike,tim
    
    i might just take 10 minutes and change them to shared,tim if I do have private notes then push, and you can do the same.
    
    then we'd have:
    shared
    shared,tim
    shared,mike
    shared,tim,mike
    
    should be easy to sort from there
[2025-01-16 08:49 PM] Deciusmus: sure
[2025-01-16 08:49 PM] rsulfuratus: then i think anything that is meta-relevant gets changed from `[shared, none]` ->` meta
[2025-01-16 08:51 PM] Deciusmus: are you fixing now? we shouldn't do it at the same time or we will have conflicts
[2025-01-16 08:52 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah i'm doing it now
[2025-01-16 08:52 PM] rsulfuratus: give me five more minutes
[2025-01-16 09:05 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed
[2025-01-16 09:05 PM] rsulfuratus: MoC broken now but this search should still get shared pages:
    ``["dm_owner":"shared"]``
[2025-01-16 09:14 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed MoC update
[2025-01-16 09:15 PM] Deciusmus: wyrdling is dm owner tim whereas most gods are shared
[2025-01-16 09:15 PM] Deciusmus: is there a reason for that?
[2025-01-16 09:15 PM] rsulfuratus: no, that is probably just a copy-paste mistake
[2025-01-16 09:16 PM] rsulfuratus: you should change that, i do have a few random color notes so put shared,tim for now plus whatever you have
[2025-01-16 09:18 PM] Deciusmus: ok I pushed my updates
[2025-01-16 09:21 PM] Deciusmus: I'm changing dm_owner: shared / dm_notes none to meta mostly
[2025-01-16 09:22 PM] Deciusmus: Highland Conquest Wars? Is that really worth meta?
[2025-01-16 09:22 PM] Deciusmus: I might just put it as none
[2025-01-16 09:22 PM] rsulfuratus: i think that is shared because we have some discussion about it?
[2025-01-16 09:22 PM] Deciusmus: yeah the notes shouldn't be none you are right
[2025-01-16 09:24 PM] rsulfuratus: looking at the "just shared" stuff there are a handful mistagged with dm_notes: none that do have dm_notes, and then basically three categories:
    - joint inventions for a game (e.g., armand, abelard) where it should be easy to just grab the notes and set to none/none
    - ongoing discussion (mostly sembaran history and elven stuff and deep world history)
    - meta stuff (gods, religions, species)
[2025-01-16 09:24 PM] Deciusmus: A Story about Halfing Merchants? That probably doesn't need a DM owner
[2025-01-16 09:25 PM] rsulfuratus: no, that should be none/none
[2025-01-16 09:26 PM] rsulfuratus: sylvan writing as well i think all the discussion is captured by the note
[2025-01-16 09:26 PM] Deciusmus: yes
[2025-01-16 09:27 PM] Deciusmus: ok I cleaned up, Undead ? It is shared,tim / none
[2025-01-16 09:27 PM] Deciusmus: do you actually have notes? I don't think there was much shared dscussion
[2025-01-16 09:27 PM] rsulfuratus: i have some notes, that shouldn't be none
[2025-01-16 09:28 PM] Deciusmus: i assume it should be important
[2025-01-16 09:28 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah
[2025-01-16 09:28 PM] rsulfuratus: probably i tagged shared meaning "meta" and didn't remember to update notes to important
[2025-01-16 09:28 PM] rsulfuratus: if you push i can look at changes
[2025-01-16 09:29 PM] rsulfuratus: and see what is left
[2025-01-16 09:29 PM] rsulfuratus: did you add meta?
[2025-01-16 09:29 PM] Deciusmus: ya to a few
[2025-01-16 09:29 PM] Deciusmus: one sec
[2025-01-16 09:29 PM] Deciusmus: needed to go plug i my laptop
[2025-01-16 09:30 PM] Deciusmus: I pushing a change that sets the following to meta/none:
    
    * Aldanor
    * Region Map
    * a few random brainstorming pages that are themselves dumps of notes
[2025-01-16 09:31 PM] Deciusmus: and fixes notes: none for a few other shared pages, and sets a couple to none/none (either discussed above or with status/tim)
[2025-01-16 09:31 PM] rsulfuratus: okay, i'm pulling now
[2025-01-16 09:31 PM] Deciusmus: pushed
[2025-01-16 09:33 PM] rsulfuratus: for the remaining shared notes, i think i would change all playable species to meta by default, regardless.
    
    as well as kestavo, tanshi, and mos numena main pages, and mos numena gods
[2025-01-16 09:34 PM] Deciusmus: yes, although some of those might have shared discussions to capture, right?
[2025-01-16 09:34 PM] rsulfuratus: although actually i'm now wondering about meta - because for example i think the Chardonian Empire, although "meta", is probably not really "meta" in the sense that i'm developing in relatively in isolation. same with dunmar
[2025-01-16 09:34 PM] rsulfuratus: compared to say addermarch
[2025-01-16 09:35 PM] rsulfuratus: so i think meta doesn't really mean meta, it just means "automatically relevant to multiple campaigns"
[2025-01-16 09:35 PM] Deciusmus: joint?
[2025-01-16 09:35 PM] Deciusmus: I actually wonder if it is better to have a *tag* for shared notes to import
[2025-01-16 09:35 PM] Deciusmus: rather than a dm_owner
[2025-01-16 09:36 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah maybe that is better. status/external perhaps
[2025-01-16 09:36 PM] Deciusmus: or status/check/external
[2025-01-16 09:37 PM] rsulfuratus: i was actually thinking about splitting status. 
    
    in a lot of the MoC stuff, i find myself wanting to do: active, stub, needswork, check, complete
[2025-01-16 09:37 PM] rsulfuratus: i would consider "look for external notes" to be more like "cleanup/incomplete" than "check" as it doesn't imply anything wrong with existing text
[2025-01-16 09:37 PM] Deciusmus: right
[2025-01-16 09:38 PM] rsulfuratus: we don't have cleanup/external, so could just use that
[2025-01-16 09:39 PM] rsulfuratus: i don't actually want to add another top-level status tag as i'd have to fix all the dataview
[2025-01-16 09:40 PM] Deciusmus: sure
[2025-01-16 09:45 PM] rsulfuratus: not sure how much more i'm going to do tonight but i think the key "joint" things would be:
    - general feywild stuff (fey, feywild pages mostly)
    - languages & playable species
    - large-scale sembaran history 
    - addermarch / tyrwingha / sembara top-level pages but not lower-level pages
    - elven stuff
    - deno'qai stuff
[2025-01-16 09:45 PM] rsulfuratus: (oh plus mos numena)
[2025-01-16 09:45 PM] Deciusmus: yeah that sounds right; plus kestavo and zimka unless you are leaving that as just mike
[2025-01-16 09:45 PM] rsulfuratus: zimka i think is more you
[2025-01-16 09:46 PM] rsulfuratus: kestavo i guess to the extent it plays into the larger "northern folk religions"
[2025-01-16 09:46 PM] Deciusmus: I'm going to go watch a show with Dana; but I actually think if we had
    
    (a) cleanup/external to mean there are external notes to find and copy in
    (b) dm_owner: joint to mean we are developing the page together
    (c) dm_owner: mike, tim to mean we are developing separately but want to coordinate
    
    It would be fairly clear. 
    
    dm_owner: none then means either (a) the page is done and you have no further plans or (b) the page is not done but no one has plans.
[2025-01-16 09:46 PM] rsulfuratus: but maybe better to just tag the "northern folk religions" page as joint
[2025-01-16 09:46 PM] Deciusmus: yeah
[2025-01-16 09:47 PM] rsulfuratus: okay, i am going to spend 20 minutes or so on this, maybe more depending on how sucked in i get
[2025-01-16 09:47 PM] rsulfuratus: there will probably be another round of cleanup / check/mike stuff, i'll tag you if i'm not certain (can also look at commit history)
[2025-01-16 09:53 PM] Deciusmus: One thought  - dm owner is basically who is developing the incomplete page which is good. That means dm owner none / dm notes is basically a page you are “done with” but never finished, which is kinda fine and a decent way to think about it.
[2025-01-16 09:55 PM] rsulfuratus: right. in my case at least the dm_owner: none / dm_notes: important are pages i'd like to finish and probably should finish. but yes i think that is a good interpretation

