# Discord DM – 2025-11-10

[2025-11-10 10:48 AM] rsulfuratus: have a few chunks of time between meetings today, and going back to my plans for a big species reorg (although also trying to work on some overall session note cleanup and stub/staging notes).
    
    i have finished at least a first draft of mechanics on the playable species of taelgar page, and i think the basic structure of having four "top level" pages - a dm meta page about creatures/game mechanics; a dm background page about in world metaphysics; a player meta page about playable species/game mechanics; a player background page about in-world "what creatures exist" kinds of questions - is good. i will probably spend a bit of time cleaning these up. 
    
    but i'm less clear what goes on the pages for individual species or creature groups or whatever. i'm not convinced the PHB 2014 style pages are useful. there are a few basic facts that are probably good to capture, including appearance, unusual biology or metaphysics (if it exists), some basic notes about religion/history/culture, some basic notes about settlement patterns. 
    
    i don't really think these work well in the in-world style like cosmology pages, at least not completely, but it might be worth capturing some kind of "insiders/outsiders" distinction at least. i'm not sure. 
    
    i am also not clear on what to do with pages like "Elven Cycle of Generations" which are currently in background but might reasonably be part of Creatures. religious practice documents should likely stay in religion, but other culture or biology notes about species are less clear to me (possibly some of this should go in groups/cultures
    
    i will probably just try to start writing things and see what works - and might not even get past the overview pages depending on how many emails i need to reply to. 
    
    however, if you have opinions on either:
    (A) the structure and style of species pages, especially whether the old PHB 2014 style is worth keeping; or 
    (B) directory structure organization
    
    let me know
[2025-11-10 12:16 PM] Deciusmus: At a high level, I think something like "Playing an Elf" or "Playing a Halfing" are very useful pages.
    
    The key points are:
    
    * A handful of overview sentences to give a quick player-focused vibe (that link, somewhere, to the main religion and cultural "in-world" pages)
    * Key questions to answer
    * A simple answer to the key questions
    * Naming
    * Mechanics
    * an "Age" section with `*`very basic* biology notes
[2025-11-10 12:16 PM] Deciusmus: I don't love the pages in Species though
[2025-11-10 12:17 PM] Deciusmus: I think a *meta* page for each species is extremely useful, to capture canonical facts about biology / history / culture / apperance
[2025-11-10 12:17 PM] Deciusmus: but I'm not sure how to make that in-world
[2025-11-10 12:23 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah that is kinda what i've been stuck on too. 
    
    i've been thinking about removing the age line from the playing a (species) pages and instead writing a very basic "biology overview" kind of section with a few sentences on appearance, aging, and any other key/important details, probably organized as bullet points for skimmability. then basic traits would be creature type / size / languages, with languages expanded a bit to add up to one sentence of notes about the native tongue of that species if useful.
    
    that would capture everything at a basic level someone would want to understand the high level way that species fits into taelgar lore. 
    
    then i kinda wonder what is left to cover on a separate species page. 
    
    in some ways what is most useful is a bit of background on culture and settlement patterns that is basically a "if you want to read more" section. 
    
    e.g. this is kinda like the "Character Species" section of the new forgotten realms book: https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/frhof/character-options
[2025-11-10 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: or like the eberron pages: https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/erftlw/character-creation#Halflings
[2025-11-10 12:24 PM] rsulfuratus: though some of this is just the "playing a (species)" page
[2025-11-10 12:25 PM] rsulfuratus: but it is kinda useful i think to have some summary of things like "where species x is most commonly found" and "what are the settlement patterns of species x" and "typical culture of species x"
[2025-11-10 12:26 PM] rsulfuratus: anyway robably won't get to any of this today as i ended up having work to do and also got distracted with a "magic of taelgar - discussion" page trying to write up some of the soulstuff/magic discussion
[2025-11-10 01:12 PM] Deciusmus: I gotta go back to working but here is a basic idea...
    
    # Species Name
    
    One or two sentences describing the general vibe of the species, with any notes, in-world flair, etc. that someone feels like creating.
    ## Appearance
    
    A few sentences on appearance, including common variations.
    ## Language and Naming
    
    Spoken languages and common naming patterns as well as any in-world lore about the meaning of names.
    
    `%%`^Campaign:None`%%`
    DM-facing notes for naming; link to [[Playing A Species#Species Names]] for specific examples / practice guidance.
    `%%`^End`%%`
    ## Lifecycle
    
    Any in-world notes on lifecycle. Can use campaign none for "insider" information that PCs shouldn't know. In general, hard to hide basic info about playable species though.
    ## Settlements and Homelands
    
    Any in-world notes on settlement patterns and homelands, focused on the "known world". 
    ## Cultural Traits
    
    Notes on common cultural traits and personality that might be shared. Can be used to outline major cultural strands, i.e. for humans link to Drankor/Chardon/Sembara/northerners/etc, these would ideally be links into Groups/Cultures but we aren't great about that yet).
    ## Historical Perspective
    
    Notes on well-known history, i.e. for dwarves a few sentences on the basic narrative of under the mountains, great war, yuvanti.
    
    `%%`^Campaign:None`%%`
    ## Metaphysics
    
    Soulstuff and other metaphysical considerations; impact on resurrection, afterlife, etc
    ## Creation Story
    
    Notes on canonical decisions about creation
    
    `%%`^End`%%`
[2025-11-10 01:13 PM] rsulfuratus: that looks great as a template. i've not made much progress as people keep emailing me but might get more done later
[2025-11-10 01:16 PM] Deciusmus: I pushed as _templates/markdown
[2025-11-10 05:22 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed a big rewrite of "creature rules in taelgar"
[2025-11-10 06:26 PM] Deciusmus: one thing I might need to invent before my dec game - do kobolds have any rituals around death?
    
    My PCs are really growing attached to one of the kobold factions, and they've convinced (via a DC30 persuastion check) this faction to help them fight the kobolds who are still loyal to the dragon.
    
    It seems very unlikely all of them will survive, so what will happen in the aftermath of the battle with several surviving and several dead kobolds?
[2025-11-10 06:27 PM] rsulfuratus: hmm, interesting question. probably need a kobold metaphysics and creation story
[2025-11-10 06:27 PM] rsulfuratus: kobolds always get players deeply attached to them for some reason
[2025-11-10 06:27 PM] Deciusmus: They have a very side-kick kind of feel
[2025-11-10 06:49 PM] rsulfuratus: kate has a lot of work to do tonight so i'm going to try to finish drafts of the overview pages at least tonight, fyi
[2025-11-10 08:06 PM] rsulfuratus: pushed Metaphysics of Creatures rewrite
[2025-11-10 08:31 PM] Deciusmus: Is it worth saying something about soul stuff being the mechanism of resurrection?
[2025-11-10 08:32 PM] rsulfuratus: this is laid out in detail in the page on the land of the dead in the dm notes, but could probably use elaboration elsewhere
[2025-11-10 08:33 PM] Deciusmus: I don’t love the elder folk term - if there needs to be a collective name that is used in world I’d prefer something else (Firstborn?) but I’m not convinced a collective name is needed
[2025-11-10 08:37 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah. elder folk is okay for a meta term, and maybe in world there would be no sense of these species as a collective group. more likely it would be useful to have an in world term for roughly the eight common and uncommon playable species (humans, elves, dwarves, stoneborn, halflings, lizardfolk, kenku, centaur) as this is kind of the generic understanding of "civilized species" but i don't love that term either
[2025-11-10 08:39 PM] Deciusmus: Right but the land of the dead page is very oriented around the land of the dead. Does it need updating (or the metaphysics page need updating) to take into account the idea that - perhaps? - creatures without a divine connection can not be resurrected?
[2025-11-10 08:40 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah some updating there would be useful
[2025-11-10 08:42 PM] rsulfuratus: my inclination is that the basic idea would be:
    - revify always works on anything that had a soul in the first place (you can't case revivify on a construct)
    - raise dead generally workson anything that had a soul but the time limit might vary depending on the nature of the creature
    - resurrection specifically is only useful for creatures that in some way dwell in the divine realms after death
    - true resurrection and wish are 9th level spells and can in principle break the normal metaphysical rules
[2025-11-10 08:43 PM] rsulfuratus: i will add a note to this effect
[2025-11-10 08:43 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I like that
[2025-11-10 08:43 PM] rsulfuratus: i think the dm meta page is the place for it
[2025-11-10 08:50 PM] Deciusmus: I really like giants and dragons as accreting soul stuff from multiple planes
[2025-11-10 09:06 PM] Deciusmus: I think kenku and centaurs work well to have some specific and unique story.
[2025-11-10 09:07 PM] Deciusmus: Fey, the elemental species, and the nuisance trio (goblins, bullywugs, kobolds) seem like the biggest “unclear” stories.
[2025-11-10 09:08 PM] Deciusmus: I think the elemental planes are best left alone for now. Clearly elementals have elemental plane soul stuff and many elemental creatures are just creatures
[2025-11-10 09:08 PM] Deciusmus: Fey and the nuisance trio are probably the ones that could use the most brainstorming as to how they fit in
[2025-11-10 09:09 PM] rsulfuratus: for elementals - i also have a lot of half developed stuff to work in from planning around the seeker / frankar arc; and the entire high level arc of the Great Library campaign, if we ever play it, is largely set on elemental planes. so yeah probably makes sense to just leave that for now, don't even need to decide what is a species and what is a creature until it is needed in game
[2025-11-10 09:09 PM] rsulfuratus: kobolds seem fairly pressing if you need to invent some kobold death rites in the next few weeks
[2025-11-10 09:09 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah 😀
[2025-11-10 09:10 PM] rsulfuratus: fey generally need a better story as they are pretty important in a lot of ways to several different campaigns
[2025-11-10 09:10 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not convinced goblins or bullywugs need immediate invention
[2025-11-10 09:11 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah agreed. It’s only if there is some relationship between the kobolds goblins bullywugs
[2025-11-10 09:11 PM] rsulfuratus: i lean against that
[2025-11-10 09:11 PM] rsulfuratus: but would approach it from the other end
[2025-11-10 09:12 PM] rsulfuratus: if what is invented for kobolds is generalizable to goblins and bullywugs, great. if not, oh well
[2025-11-10 09:12 PM] Deciusmus: Sure.
[2025-11-10 09:15 PM] Deciusmus: In my head I wonder if there is a connection between something like kobolds and something like ogres or giant eagles. 
    
    One of the things this “species/creatures” distinction doesn’t really solve is - where do creatures come from? 
    
    In particular there is a group of bipedal “monsterous” humanoids that larger than (hobgoblin, goblin, orc, kobolds) - how do the none-species ones come to be?
[2025-11-10 09:16 PM] rsulfuratus: i think part of the logic of this metaphysics is there isn't a single answer, everything is specific and contingent, and usually doesn't need to be invented
[2025-11-10 09:16 PM] Deciusmus: I think the idea that some of these don’t have a unique single creation or history or whatever is very useful.
[2025-11-10 09:17 PM] Deciusmus: Right I don’t mean “how did this group of ogres” come to be
[2025-11-10 09:17 PM] Deciusmus: Or even “how did ogres in general” come to be
[2025-11-10 09:17 PM] Deciusmus: I mean - how do non-species humanoid creatures with sentience come to be in general?
[2025-11-10 09:18 PM] rsulfuratus: i think my general idea is that these are mostly, although probably not always, transformations
[2025-11-10 09:19 PM] rsulfuratus: so ogres or cyclops might be hill giants who something happened to
[2025-11-10 09:19 PM] rsulfuratus: medusas are cursed
[2025-11-10 09:19 PM] rsulfuratus: minotaurs could also be cursed
[2025-11-10 09:20 PM] rsulfuratus: (a lot of things derived from greek myth are just cursed humans)
[2025-11-10 09:20 PM] rsulfuratus: trolls i kind of ilke as spontaneous creations that just kind of sprout up in places for unclear and unknown reasons
[2025-11-10 09:21 PM] rsulfuratus: dopplegangers are probably magical constructs that lack a soul
[2025-11-10 09:21 PM] rsulfuratus: gnolls are basically just demons
[2025-11-10 09:23 PM] Deciusmus: Right. If it’s mostly transformations or, in rare cases, spontaneous generation, then there is a pretty clear distinction between say an ogre and a goblin
[2025-11-10 09:24 PM] rsulfuratus: right, so i guess ogres and other giant-ish things are probably the biggest open question and might be tied to goblin origin stories in some way
[2025-11-10 09:26 PM] rsulfuratus: i mean ogres could also be the occasional goblin that just keeps growing or something
[2025-11-10 09:27 PM] rsulfuratus: or the "ogre" statblock could represent two very distinct metaphysical things - extra big goblins and twisted hill giants
[2025-11-10 09:28 PM] Deciusmus: I’m not actually thinking there is necessarily a connection.
[2025-11-10 09:32 PM] Deciusmus: My thinking was more… is there some general process that creates sentient monstrous humanoids of which goblins and bullywugs or such could be a subtype - or instead is it that the various monstrous humanoids are mostly all cursed or transformed other things, suggesting goblins are something unique
[2025-11-10 09:32 PM] rsulfuratus: hmm
[2025-11-10 09:33 PM] Deciusmus: Although I wonder if the “multiple planes” soul stuff would make giants particularly easy to transform and corrupt
[2025-11-10 09:34 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not commited one way or the other. i guess it is worth keeping in mind but that might imply to me something more like the fey, where there is really just one species of "monstrous humanoids" but they take on different forms somehow? 
    
    if there is a consistent metaphysical process that generates monstorous humanoids, why that does sometimes produce species and sometimes not?
[2025-11-10 09:34 PM] rsulfuratus: though i do like the multiple planes soulstuff leaves to lots of transformations idea
[2025-11-10 09:36 PM] Deciusmus: It feels to me a little bit more interesting to have a specific story around a small number of species.
[2025-11-10 09:37 PM] Deciusmus: Which means leaning into the transformations and corruptions
[2025-11-10 09:39 PM] Deciusmus: Dragons honestly could be subject to that as well, maybe basilisk and wyverns and such are corruptions of dragons.
[2025-11-10 09:40 PM] rsulfuratus: sure. i guess i'm not committed to having a specific overarching metaphysics for creatures, since typically they are not constrained to have a single origin story anyway. so maybe sometimes basiliks get created when giant snakes nest too close to some strange magic, and sometimes they hatch from corrupted dragon eggs, etc, etc
[2025-11-10 09:41 PM] Deciusmus: Right.
[2025-11-10 09:41 PM] Deciusmus: I guess I’m saying… I agree. Ogres might be born from giants or goblins or maybe sometimes they just crawl out of the earth and not know why
[2025-11-10 09:42 PM] Deciusmus: I was exploring the idea of some overarching story which might make goblins and kobolds part of a continuum but on consideration I think it’s a bit of a bad idea
[2025-11-10 09:48 PM] Deciusmus: So I guess to go back to kobolds… my inclination is that they are tied to material plane and have no gods and only an opportunistic relationship with dragons.
[2025-11-10 09:48 PM] Deciusmus: Although I think there must be some relationship in some sense.
[2025-11-10 09:49 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe they are some kind of accidental by-product of dragon reproduction
[2025-11-10 09:49 PM] Deciusmus: Or accidental byproduct of whatever force created dragons
[2025-11-10 09:51 PM] rsulfuratus: i have no definitive feelings but a few fairly distinct ideas/directions
[2025-11-10 09:52 PM] rsulfuratus: i wouldn't prematurely rule out that they are created by some kind of ancient great wyrm(s) grown so powerful as to effectively be divinities
[2025-11-10 09:52 PM] rsulfuratus: i think this probably should not involve gifted soulstuff and any kind of firstborn vibe
[2025-11-10 09:53 PM] rsulfuratus: but it could set up some interesting culture
[2025-11-10 09:53 PM] rsulfuratus: e.g. some kobolds try to escape their draconic creators, others worship them
[2025-11-10 09:54 PM] rsulfuratus: alternatively, they could also be "echoes of ancient powers" type creatures, just somehow dimished/constrained in a way dragons & giants aren't. this would kind of be your accidental byproduct of whatever force created dragons i guess
[2025-11-10 09:55 PM] rsulfuratus: this could set up a different kind of culture, where some kobolds seek knowledge/ability/power to recover their lost heritage and be as strong as dragons. and could also leave room for the occasional much stronger kobold creature
[2025-11-10 09:57 PM] Deciusmus: I’m not sure I like kobolds as having lost heritage exactly n
[2025-11-10 09:59 PM] Deciusmus: I think from a culture standpoint they kinda work best as having two strands - a worshipful/servant kind strand that attaches to a more powerful creature and a hide/slink away kind of strand that stays in the shadows and sorta lives in the margins
[2025-11-10 10:00 PM] Deciusmus: If they were created by a powerful ancient wyrm, I’m not sure kobolds actually know it
[2025-11-10 10:00 PM] rsulfuratus: i tend to lean a little towards "creations of ancient great wyrms" in part beacuse there isn't really another example of a species that has an origin story invoving basically a unique magical creation by powerful semi-divinities
[2025-11-10 10:01 PM] rsulfuratus: but at the same time it is kind of a classic archetype/vibe
[2025-11-10 10:03 PM] Deciusmus: Right. I can see the appeal I’m not sure just about the impact on kobold culture… do they talk about / worship this semi-divine creator? Or do they just not know about it at all? If no one knows, is it the right place to use it?
[2025-11-10 10:04 PM] Deciusmus: But I’m not sure I love the vibe of the kobolds worshipping a dragon because it’s a stand in for their creator or something. Although maybe that could work
[2025-11-10 10:05 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe goblins are the failed creation of an ancient giant divinity banished because they didn’t live up to the divinities hopes. Although actually that could work for kobolds instead
[2025-11-10 10:10 PM] rsulfuratus: so i think my feeling is that kobolds would generally know they were created by some kind of dragon god-like creature or creatures (probably singular)
[2025-11-10 10:10 PM] rsulfuratus: but, they have complicated and diverse feelings about this
[2025-11-10 10:10 PM] rsulfuratus: you could spin this into a whole bunch of strands/vibes
[2025-11-10 10:11 PM] rsulfuratus: some kobolds want to forge their own path and specifically avoid dragons
[2025-11-10 10:12 PM] rsulfuratus: some kobolds worship the creator dragon and see themselves as pure or different from "real dragons" who have turned their back on their creator (perhaps mistakenly thinking the same creator made kobolds and dragons)
[2025-11-10 10:12 PM] rsulfuratus: some kobolds look up to worship dragons as a stand in for the creator god; but many others worship dragons because they see them as a way to escape the confines of their creator god or something
[2025-11-10 10:13 PM] rsulfuratus: this is all just spitballing but it feels like there are a lot of ways it could play out
[2025-11-10 10:14 PM] rsulfuratus: as a twist, maybe the creator god dragon is dead now. maybe destroyed in the riving or maybe killed in the [[downfall wars]] or something like that
[2025-11-10 10:14 PM] rsulfuratus: or alternatively the creator god was exiled during the riving to somewhere
[2025-11-10 10:15 PM] rsulfuratus: it feels like there is a lot of material to play with from the basic premise of "effectively divine dragon who existed before the riving created a servant race of small draconic creatures and then the riving happened and things went topsy turvy"
[2025-11-10 10:16 PM] rsulfuratus: potentially one thing that could actually unite the three 'nuisance species' is a history of being created by something powerful but not a traditional deity
[2025-11-10 10:17 PM] rsulfuratus: although i also kind of like goblins as exiles from the feywild somehow
[2025-11-10 10:17 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm not settled on any of this, just brainstorming
[2025-11-10 10:17 PM] rsulfuratus: probably want to let it stew for a few days before committing to anything
[2025-11-10 10:22 PM] Deciusmus: I quite like the basic idea of…
    
    Kobolds created by some proto-dragon before the riving. 
    
    Kobolds believe this proto-dragon god also created dragons (although this is not true)
    
    Kobolds metaphysically accrete soulstuff but actually predate the riving and therefore sometimes end up with some bits of other inner planes giving them dragon-like characteristics
    
    The proto dragon creator is gone, and kobolds at least know it doesn’t answer prayers and so don’t worship it exactly
[2025-11-10 10:24 PM] Deciusmus: So you end up with some different vibes…
    
    Some kobolds kinda lament that they don’t have a god and wish they had one
    
    Most latch on to dragons as avatars of their lost god
    
    Some kinda go their own way and are not interested in gods at all. Some might even try worshipping human gods
[2025-11-10 10:26 PM] rsulfuratus: hmm i like this. one of the first encounters i ran for isaac and his friends was a kobold lair where the kobolds were worshipping what was essentially a extraplanar weak point to the plane of fire, and they famously got through the final encounter with a great deception roll convincing the kobolds they were the avatar of the fire god. this has become a long running joke in that game which they all still remember even though they were like 9 when it happened
    
    i kind of like the idea that some kobolds have a tendency to kind of latch onto things to worship because of that
[2025-11-10 10:27 PM] Deciusmus: Maybe some avoid dragons because they resent their creator for abandoning them. 
    
    I think I’d stay away from firstborn “escape the image of our creator” vibe though.
[2025-11-10 10:28 PM] rsulfuratus: yeah, agreed
[2025-11-10 10:29 PM] Deciusmus: Also I was going to add, I think the nuisance species (and centuries) are probably united by the idea that they have material plane souls and no gods.
[2025-11-10 10:30 PM] Deciusmus: I actually wonder if there is space for some kind of story about giant divinities who failed to create a lasting creature resulting in a range of corruptions like ogres and similar creatures
[2025-11-10 10:32 PM] rsulfuratus: sure, although if dragons and giants also have no gods, there isn't much left. it is basically just the unclear metaphysics of aerin
[2025-11-10 10:34 PM] rsulfuratus: hmm. maybe? giant religion needs a bit more thought here maybe. i tend to think they probably do worship some kind of ascended ancestors, or at least some of them do. but i'm not sure
[2025-11-10 10:36 PM] rsulfuratus: i'm going to bed but i have tomorrow off so probably will work more on this then. pushed in-progress draft of the last meta page, the player-facing "creatures of taelgar"
[2025-11-10 10:37 PM] Deciusmus: Yeah I’m not committed at all on the brainstorming.
[2025-11-10 10:37 PM] Deciusmus: `*`giants I mean. Just brainstorming
[2025-11-10 10:38 PM] Deciusmus: I think goblins as exiled fey and kobolds as lost dragon god have promise. The exiled fey though probably needs a larger treatment of fey to make sense

