From a historian substack I read, on ancient Rome and pre-modern travel times generally:

Water transport was a lot faster than land transport and, perhaps equally importantly, the speed of water transport did not increase if you increased the amount you were moving. A man on a series of fast horses, with a good road, in decent weather - say a postal worker carrying an urgent letter about an upstart claiming to be emperor on the norther border - might be able to move across land as fast as a ship, maybe even a little faster over short distances or if the winds and currents were wrong for the ship. However, for a farmer or merchant with tonnes of goods or an army with supplies - weapons, tents, food, tools and all of the other things armies carry - travel by ox cart was much slower:

- The fastest ever speed clocked by a racehorse was (apparently - I’m not really into horse racing) by Mr Frisk in the Grand National in 1990, at 35.6 miles per hour (57.2 kilometres per hour for those of you watching in decimal).² But you can’t ride a horse like that for very long. The Grand National course length is about 4 miles (6.5 km). Over longer distances, a horse can maintain around 10 miles per hour (16 kph) for around 10-15 miles, or at least that is what the Pony Express worked out in the USA in 1860. The Pony Express was a relay mail service that, by using regular changes of fast horses and riding day and night, could get a letter from St Joseph, Missouri to Sacramento, California, or 1966 miles, in just 10 days. Many large ancient empires, including the Roman Empire, seem to have had some sort of system like this, with regular way stations, well-fed, fast horses and specially trained riders, but only the most important imperial mail could be sent that way. For even a rich person with access to their own horse, 20-25 miles per day would be a good pace and if they wanted to send anything heavy or over rough terrain, that number starts to drop sharply.
    
- Ox carts, which would have carried most bulk goods, can move around 3-4 mph (5-6ish kph) on a fairly flat road or decent track and can’t really make much headway over rough or hilly terrain at all.
    
- The variables for boats are enormous and depend on things like whether it is powered by oars or sails, is moving with or against winds or currents, its hull shape and a bunch of other things, but for the sake of orders of magnitude, the fastest ever recorded speed by a sail boat was 68 mph (109 kph), apparently by a boat by the appropriate name of Sailrocket, but a more usual speed would be somewhere between 6 and 20 mph (9-32 kph). The big difference if you are a farmer, army supplier or anybody else dealing with a lot of stuff is that, to a certain point (i.e. how big is your boat?) this speed won’t be affected very much by how large or heavy the cargo is whereas every added pound/kilo on an ox cart makes life harder for the oxen and harder to do things like heave the cart over ruts in the road or the occasional hill.
---
Still, if we take that two-hour journey time that I started with, you, as a villager in the ancient or medieval world, might reasonably feel that the village that was about a two-hour walk away on a good, flat path (about 8 miles or 12 kilometres), the market town along a hilly road that you took your ox cart two hours to every week (about 5 miles or 8 kilometres) and the city about a two-hour sail along the coast (35 miles or 56 kilometres) were all roughly as far away from you as each other. After all, it would take you about as long to reach them all.