# Beat Context: b01 - Asineau Ascendant

This file is only for producing `beat-facts.json`.
Do not edit `beats.json`.

## Session

- Campaign: Cleenseau
- Session Number: 29

## Beat Metadata

- Beat ID: b01
- Title: Asineau Ascendant
- Range: `u0001` -> `u0020`
- Lines: 20
- Date Start: unknown
- Date End: same day
- Time Window: unknown

## Output Shape

```json
{
  "beatId": "b01",
  "dateStart": "",
  "dateEnd": null,
  "timeWindow": null,
  "shortSummary": "",
  "longSummary": "",
  "location": {
    "kind": "fixed",
    "primary": "",
    "context": "",
    "notes": ""
  },
  "npcs": [
    {
      "name": "",
      "role": "encountered",
      "context": "",
      "notes": ""
    }
  ],
  "items": [
    {
      "name": "",
      "role": "mentioned",
      "notes": ""
    }
  ],
  "organizations": [
    {
      "name": "",
      "role": "mentioned",
      "notes": ""
    }
  ],
  "combat": {
    "isCombat": false
  }
}
```

## Adjacent Beats

- Next: b02 - Dragon Rumors East (unknown)

If the transcript does not clearly restate the location, prefer inheriting the prior beat's location unless there is a clear move or travel transition.

## Participants

- Robin: name=Dan Walters, gameRole=Robin
- Viepuck: name=Chris Kelly, gameRole=Viepuck
- Celyn: name=Kiya Nicoll, gameRole=Celyn
- Izgil: name=Matt Rand, gameRole=Izgil
- DM: name=Mike Sackton, gameRole=DM

## Source

[u0001 | source] [ gaming ] An interlude, soon to be slightly on fire
[u0002 | source] Published: 2025-11-09T22:40:00 Original URL: https://kiya.dreamwidth.org/824905.html
[u0003 | source] Summarizing some emailed events and today's session.
[u0004 | source] _Dramatis Personae_
[u0005 | source] Izgil, who did not do much because his player was out this session
[u0006 | source] Celyn, who has complicated class issues
[u0007 | source] Viepuck, who is very busy causing chaos as usual
[u0008 | source] Robin, who is doing a lot of engineering lately
[u0009 | source] When we concluded last session, the party was [having something of a vacation in Robin's new demesne of the village of Asineau](https://kiya.dreamwidth.org/823914.html).
[u0010 | source] The party goes to the trial of the Baroness we successfully deposed. They are unable to convict her of necromancy (Celyn is faintly peeved by this) but do manage to convict her of _treason_, as investigation reveals that she had set up a frame job for the previous lord and arranged the murder of a band of halflings (that she got him executed for), so at least she is Dealt With. A Tyrwinghan is appointed as the new baron, and Robin accepts the post of lord of the village of Asineau.
[u0011 | source] The people of Asineau are very happy to have their new lord installed, and are perhaps a bit smug about being The Place The Heroes Live. The party have pooled their resources (and an optional rule from the latest D&D revision) in order to give the village one hell of a makeover.
[u0012 | source] (On a mechanics level: the new revision of D&D reintroduces the old "adventurers can have a fortress" concept as a mechanic accessible at lower levels, and the individual improvements that each individual party member can cause can be pooled. Thus, we have a bunch of stuff that we can build and it Just Kinda Happens because of game mechanics, and we are building story out of it.)
[u0013 | source] Asineau was not in great shape when we got possession of it. Lord Punchable Face (Mike pointed out that I never use this guy's actual name but I can't remember it (it's [Lorin Valbert](https://msackton.github.io/taelgarverse1720/people/sembarans/lorin-valbert/))) was the sort of person who would slightly overtax the people so that he could buy gold-plated swords and fancy tapestries to console himself over being made lord of a backwater. The food situation is ordinarily fine but the taxation caused things to be a little scant, and the fishing runs (this is a fishing and farming village) were not great last year, and so on.
[u0014 | source] So the party sweeps in and proceeds to Establish Our Home Base Complete With Game Mechanics. There are some things built in the town that can be immediately turned into home base mechanical stuff, and then we get to build up. (Barracks, Armory, Sanctuary (temple to the Wyrdling, Celyn's god), Stable.) Robin, as lord, promptly turns his hand to figuring out the village defenses; it is not that it doesn't have a wall because walls aren't a thing, but because while it's self-sufficient it does not have the surplus to afford a decent one. So he sets in to fix that. Meanwhile Celyn, as lord's _consort_, wants to fix the local economy, because he is from a village of about this size and has _opinions_ about how economics make sense.
[u0015 | source] This cascade of events leads to, among other things, a retired dwarven smith settling in Asineau with our newly-constructed Smithy to train the brother of our buddy Odo, now our captain of the guard, as a smith (basic smithing had to go to the somewhat larger village up the road previously, is how poor Asineau was), and the telescope-obsessed tinkering dwarf and their spouse settling in Asineau to supervise our Workshop, which will make Asineau host to a more stable selection of craftsmen. Amongst the craftsmen we are looking to attract is a glassworker (unless Brot the tinkerer is handling this), both because Izgil and Brot want lenses and mirrors, and because glassware is an import in this region and having a local source will make Celyn happy for multiple reasons, the obvious one of which is "we now have a desirable export fancier than smoked fish, which will make all the necessities trade much easier and allow for luxury". A local rich lady serves as our glassworks factor, which was partly 'playing politics' and partly 'she's genuinely got a trade network, easier to use it than build our own'.
[u0016 | source] Getting the glassworks running, of course, requires sand to supply materials. This is a solvable problem, because we have previously been of assistance to the nearby lizardfolk village (investigating a murder of one of their people) and thus they are not wholly isolationist about us. Robin extends an offer of mutual defense and invites them to our parties; an assortment of their people are willing to get sand from the bottom of the river (as they can swim that deep easily) in exchange for fishing nets and snails we can easily obtain in trade, among other things.
[u0017 | source] Celyn is happy to support Robin's diplomatic overtures and is, additionally, keeping an eye on the racist-against-lizardfolk miller in town, because he has taken a dislike to the man for being an unpleasant bigot. While he fully accepts that Some People Are Like That (as a complex matter of spiritual discipline), he also would like to see if they can gently rearrange life such that the man has some sort of consequences for being a shithead, and thus making lizardfolk more common sights in town has him feeling Exceptionally Popcorn. (Celyn is not Machiavellian in the slightest but his sense of humor has at least a _shade_ of fairy prankster to it.)
[u0018 | source] Izgil meanwhile establishes some research resources in town, and Celyn insists on a Garden because _damnit he is a farm boy_. (Celyn has several other things going on with the Garden.) The fishing is excellent and the season looks good, so clearly the land/god of nature/both appreciate Robin's accession (or the end of the lich that had replaced the king, or both).
[u0019 | source] Asineau continues to settle into its new state of governance. Robin hosts a festival event with combat games added to the festivities (we are looking, in the long run, to continue to be training local people to fight, including against monsters and the like, so this is part of the Long Term Plan). A caravan of halflings comes to town and has a _long_ conversation with Celyn and whoever else joins in about appropriate clothing for the proper theatrics of local governance (which is _exactly_ how Celyn thinks of it, and his default costuming is Well-Off Peasant which does not suit Lord's Consort at all). The halflings indicate they will come sell fancy tailoring here every so often in the future. (This human village is becoming increasingly multi-namegiver in mode. Celyn continues to keep an eye on the miller while he monitors town gossip, which he often does by joining spinning circles. He is actually extremely good at spinning and a village always needs more spinners.)
[u0020 | source] The high-level adventuring party who killed the lich drop by to leave us some of their magic items before they go on a quest Across The Sea to attempt to resurrect their fallen party member, who was the one who could cast "resurrection". The new baron comes by on his riding the bounds and we do appropriate things about that. There are rumors of elemental dust from the Plaguelands in the south sweeping around and causing problems.
