(1/24/2021)

Do you have any specific thoughts about priestly organization in Mos Numera? Would there be temples in every town?

I'm writing up a detailed writeup of a small town where I am going to start this campaign if it ever happens (Clenseau, a major river crossing of the Enst between Barony of Dunfry and the Duchy of Maseau -- I'll send you the document), and I haven't really got a good sense of whether there would be a major temple? A couple of minor shrines? Little direct organized religion?

===========

I haven't put as much thought into Mos Numera as the Dunmari gods.
 
I've taken a lot of ideas about how the Dunmari worship is organized from Chalion's Five Divines religion. The basic idea is little hierarchy, monasteries/mystery cults that are largely run by the god-touched (clerics, divine soul sorcerers, people with actual divine magic) and devoted to individual gods, but temples are almost always to the whole pantheon, and sacred spots/shrines dotting the landscape at places where divine intervention happened.

For the Mos Numera, my main goal is they should feel like they are different from the Dunmari religion. My inclination is that there would be temples, but generally to one of the Divines, not the whole pantheon, and smaller places would have a temple to one Divine who would kind of be the patron of that settlement. Might be a small shrine in a village, or a significant temple in a town, but only the biggest cities would have temples to all eight gods -- Embry, for example, might have a Temple District that had all eight temples arranged around a significant plaza. You might also get some pairings that are common, like 'mother/father' or 'father/warlord'. But a single temple to the whole pantheon would be rare. I also think there would be a non-trivial hierarchy, with at least a few levels, but not sure if it would be organized around individual gods, or around the pantheon. I don't think there is a Pope-like figure, though -- it may be a bit more like Judaism where you have various religious movements / factions but no unified leader. 

I think the history of Mos Numera is partly driven by the fact that Drankor was fairly secular, in the sense that a lot of their magical power came from arcane magic, and so in many ways they didn't really need the gods. Many people needed the gods -- the impact of low-level cleric spells on the daily life of commoners would be immense -- but the state didn't really need the gods. So you never get like the medieval church, where lots of direct political power rests in the religious hierarchy. I can see this attitude carrying on in Sembara -- the gods look after the common folk type thing. 
 
But this is all pretty loose and there is little canon on Mos Numera. The only two things that I've really used in game are:

1) There are definitely knightly orders and things associated with particular gods as well -- the Order of Twilight, dedicated to the Night Queen, was active in the west before the Great War, running hospices to ease the passage of the mortally ill/wounded to the next life. This is canon from my campaign with Isaac's friends.

2) There are definitely little shrines and sacred spots that dot the landscape, places where you can go and make an offering for a minor blessing, basically the equivalent of ley lines but for the divine magic of the gods -- places where they are more present in the world and working divine magic is easier. This would be a major way for gods to ensure offerings and belief in them to maintain their power.

============================

Some random thoughts—

First, Mos Numera might have diverged somewhat between Sembara and Chardon. So I'm envisioning the below as a uniquely Sembaran take on the traditions, I could see it being somewhat different in Chardon or Cymea or the farther East. This is what I was thinking for a specifically "Greater Sembaran" version of Mos Numera, which would have historically been the main tradition of all the lands that were once East Northerner and in particular would still be common in Vostok, Sembara, Tollen, Tyrwingha, the highland kingdoms, and the south. Cymea may or may not have a similar tradition, and Skagenland probably does not follow this exactly. 

Second, I'm explicitly having this tradition draw a bit on some "old gods" cultural traditions. Although I don't have any really clear made up views on the old gods, two traditions that I think might fit nicely and provide some inspiration to the Sembaran take on Mos Numera:

1. The old gods were / are explicitly seen as the beings that intercede with Arha and Malik on behalf of the humans. So there would be this view of praying to an entity where much of its power is in some way about its ability to influence the 'overgod / true divinity'. Perhaps many of the old gods had a small regional scope -- the god of this stream, or that forest, or even that tree. This made them inherently weak, in the Taelgarian sense, as they rarely had great outpourings of belief. (I am thinking that some grew bigger and would be named and still lurk in various places. But I also like the idea that in a mountain valley in north Zovcka, everyone still worships the ancient oak tree, and there is a small, ancient old god still active in that very small region).

2. The old gods were explicitly about place, and therefore new places and new settlements had to be blessed by a god. And so there would always be some god, either one of the more important ones, or the local stream spirit, who was the protector / blessor of a specific town/village/tribe/community. If there wasn't a blessing, there wasn't a settlement.
  
(Perhaps some of the 'old gods' are really archfey)

(This view on the old religion is a bit of a mashup between celtic traditions and the Serer religion of west africa -- or at least what I learned about it from its wikipedia page)

The fundamental tenets of Mos Numera have always been about personalized prayer to the gods for either blessing or advice, and remembrance of past miracles and past times the gods had granted prayers or shown signs to guide the way. One key tenet is that the gods can grant anyone's prayer, and you don't need to be a mystic or a priest for blessings. Another key tenet is that places, practices, and people who have been blessed in the past are more likely to be blessed in the future, and that remembrance of past miracles keeps a place 'alive' to the gods, so that future miracles are more likely. And a third key tenet is that the signs and warnings of the gods can be mysterious, and interpretation of the god's will can be complex.

Prayer, broadly speaking, is about asking the gods either for help, usually in the form of a miracle, or advice, in the form of omens and signs.

In Sembara, these tenets, combined with ancient cultural traditions of the old gods, manifest via two very different, but equally important, types of spiritual practice.

**Temple Practice**

The first component of Mos Numera is the daily personal and communal prayers and remembrances. At a personal level, this prayer is mediated through a household shrine or small personal altar. At a community level, it is mediated at a dedicated building (a temple). Each community has a special connection to one of the eight divines, often in some way related to a community's founding, and the community keeps alive the memory of the times where their god has helped the community. The community usually sees this one divine as the main source of their prayer, and they ask 'their god' to intercede with the others. For example, a community whose god was the Mother would typically ask her to ensure the Wanderer's blessing before a journey, rather than actually praying directly to the Wanderer. Larger communities might have two or three gods, and the largest communities may have temples to recognize all eight of the divine, even though the specific community has its own dedication. For example, Embry maybe is seen as the child of the Mother and Father, and those are the key gods for Embry, but it embraces and has temples for the other six divines as well, out of respect and acknowledgement for the many places and people in Sembara dedicated to the other divines.

Even when a community is dedicated to a specific god, subsets of the community, down even to the household, may be connected to other gods. So in a small town like Clenseau, the town may be dedicated to the Wanderer, but the military garrison may be dedicated to the Warlord and several specific households may be dedicated to the Mother. (Dedicated isn't really the right word here, more that there is a strong tradition of 'picking' a god to be the prime god of a group, and usually people in a town are raised to that god, but it isn't an exclusive relationship and it isn't weird to go against it. For example, a specific soldier from Embry might personally see the Father as his primary god, but he then lives in a military garrison that is focused on the Night Queen, which is in a town dedicated to the Wanderer. This wouldn't mean he is torn between three loyalties or anything, it would just mean that if he was praying for success in battle for his unit, he'd pray to the Night Queen to intercede on his unit's behalf. If he was praying for personal valor in arms, he'd pray to the Father to incede with the Warlord on his behalf. And if he was praying for good crops this year or the health of the lord's son, he would pray for the Wanderer to intercede with the Mother on his towns behalf).

To follow through on that same example soldier, he'd have a small personal shrine or sacred object, which would be the focus of his personal prayers, and then there would be a small shrine in the barracks to the Night Queen, and a larger temple in the town to the Wanderer. But if the innkeepers guid or whatever had a particular affinity for the Wilding, they might maintain a small separate temple to the Wildling in town. And those folks who migrated here from an upriver hamlet whose community god was the Wildling might also pray at that small temple. 

But importantly, it wouldn't be seen as whoever needs the help or intercession or wisdom of the Wildling would pray at the Wildling's temple. It would be more of a personal relationship, and the folks who had a relationship would pray at the Wildling's temple to intercede with whoever's help they needed.

In addition to daily prayer, the temples would be the focal point for feast days, which would largely be festivals of remembrance (think Hanukkah / Passover) of various miracles, and might vary wildly between towns and regions. Miracles are relatively common, and so even a small village might have had one or two in its history. The administrators of these temples are not really seen as more religious or more connected to the gods than anyone else. Rather they are appointed by the community (which in some cases means the lord or the king, in others they might be elected or selected by the previous temple leader) to ensure that the temple is kept up, and most importantly, that miracles are remembered. One of the key duties is keeping lists of miracles that have happened nearby, or finding tales of miracles from travelers or elsewhere. Recalling the story how someone's kid miraculously recovered from a disease is seen to help bring that same intercession down on you. So literacy is important for these temple stewards. Another key duty is organizing the feast days and celebrations and keeping up the temple itself. It is seen as important to respect the gods and of course the places where they are worshipped shouldn't be a place the gods would be ashamed to look at, or they might not listen to those people speaking there. 

Sacrifice is not very important in the scheme of things as in general the gods are seen to value stories, dances, songs, and other human activities more than physical goods (it is largely assumed if the gods wanted meat, they would simply create it). However, there is a tradition of small sacrifices as a way to check for a god's favour. Pouring out a bit of wine, or leaving a small coin or valuable gem at the altar very rarely results in the wine, gem, or coin actually physically disappearing. This is seen as a minor miracle itself and a very important sign that the god heard and will act on your prayer. So for those with a lot of wealth, it is seen as a display of power and wealth to leave a large sacrifice, especially for important prayers. And of course if the gods do not take the sacrifice, it is not taken back, that would be seen as a significant insult to the gods. The untaken sacrifices go to the temple and are an important source of revenue especially for larger city temples.

Each temple is largely independent and a reflection of its own community and there is little sense that the temple of the Mother in Embry is in any way 'superior' to a small shrine to the Mother in a hamlet in the western marches. One doesn't report to the other, and no wealth flows between them. The temples are reflections of the communities they are in, and if the temple in Embry is burnished with gold and the shrine in the hamlet has no roof, that is because the different communities have different resources. It would usually be seen as odd for someone outside a community to dedicate money to that community's temple, and in general temples are seen as a community's 'Sunday best' -- you want to put your best foot forward with the gods, but not at the expense of having food on the table.

**Priesthood**

The administrators of the temples are not really priests, and are not seen as particularly more religious than others or with a closer relationship to the gods. They are called stewards or temple stewards, and are seen as basically working for the community. There is however, a small priesthood, largely unconnected from the temples themselves. These are people who are blessed by the gods, and are divided up into three classes: the Elders, the Disciples, and the Acolytes. The priesthood are seen as a set of people who have a direct and important relationship with the gods, or at least, understand the gods much better than others. Some can perform miracles themselves, and are highly valued and respected for that. Others, although they cannot perform miracles, are thought to understand the guidance of the gods and are sought out for the interpretation of signs and omens. Priests, in general, live independently of the temple structure but have there own very specific hierarchy.

At the top are the Elders, of which there are about a hundred or a hundred and fifty in the region. The Elders almost exclusively have a true divine connection, and can perform magic, although it is not strictly a requirement. Becoming an Elder requires the agreement of the gods, as mediated through the current Elders. The rare Elder who cannot perform miracles is usually unnaturally blessed at understanding omens and signs. Each Elder largely settles down, although several could be clustered in one large city, and a place like Tollen might have 10 or 15. Each Elder is usually dedicated to one of the eight divines, but very rarely an Elder has multiple divine patrons, or even the entire pantheon. Elders are sought out for their miracles and advice, and are often asked to pray alongside a petionary, which is thought to bring a god's attention more clearly to the prayer. In exchange for miracles and prayers and advice, gifts are given to the elders (in some cases, extremely handsome gifts for great miracles). There is no particular larger organization, and each Elder is largely on their own for what to do with this wealth. Some live lavish lives, others give it away to the poor, and others use it to build organizations and followers. Some Elders may live at a temple, where they are of course always welcome, but very rarely if ever would the temple steward actually be a priest.

Beneath the elders are the Disciples. Often, these are students of a specific Elder, although not always, and many disciples do not find new 'masters' when the elder they learned from dies (although some do). These people are thought to have deep understanding of signs and omens, and the ear of the gods (so to speak) but many cannot perform miracles themselves (some can). There are about a thousand or fifteen hundred scattered through the region, and they are usually the most important priest someone will encounter. When the lord's son is marrying, it is the disciple who will ask the gods for blessing and guidance on behalf of the lord, and they are often part of significant rites (mostly births and marriages and other new starts, rather than endings such as deaths , which are more a time for remembrance within the community than miracles and omens). Some disciples live near the elders they serve, and in some places there are significant communities of priests. Others live on their own or in small towns and villages across the countryside. But not every town has a disciple, and having one is not always a sign of the size of a town. A disciple may settle in a small hamlet, bypassing the nearby market town. Like Elders, disciples are paid for their services, although rarely enough for the disciple to do much more than live on it at a similar standard to the wealthy in their community (a disciple in a small hamlet will get the choicest meat and fresh bread, and live similarly to a rich peasant. A disciple in Embry likely lives as well as a baron, if they wish). Some use the wealth to support acolytes they have trained. 

Beneath the disciples are the acolytes. These are the 'lay priests'. Rarely do they have divine magic (although the few that do often end up elders), but nonetheless they have always studied with an elder or a disciple, and are certainly thought to have better insights into the will of the gods than common folk. Basically a smaller scale version of a disciple, commanding less respect and less likely to have magic, but a similar role in society. There are four or five thousand acolytes in the region, enough that many towns and villages have one, but it is not uncommon for them not to. Some acolytes ride circuits to help those in wider areas, others are settled in a particular town or village, and others come together under a disciple or an elder as part of a larger organization. All have trained, at least some, under an elder or disciple, and usually they really do have a better sense of the signs and omens than others. 

All communities have temples and temple stewards, not all communities have priests. But most communities have at least a part time priest, even if it is just an acolyte who studied for a year under a disciple and now rides a circuit of ten villages every month in summer.