---
tags: [background, status/tim]
---
## Drankorian Funeral Traditions

The funerary traditions of Drankor are a useful starting point, as all [[Mos Numena]] cultures inherit many of the Drankorian ideas. In Drankor, the funeral rites were focused on the journey through the Land of the Dead. The miracle of death, the transition from the Plane of Souls to the Land of the Dead was taken for granted, as the right due from the gods to every human, and it was little celebrated or acknowledged. 

Instead, for ten days, elaborate (such as one could afford) prayers and rituals were performed to guide the soul to through the dangerous [[Land of the Dead]] to its ultimate home, in the outer realms of the gods. The locus of these rituals was the body, which was elaborately embalmed and prepared. This was a time for mourning, and often extravagant signs of grief were displayed, including, for the wealthy, by professional mourners. It was believed that these human rituals could help guide the soul on its journey and that the strength of the prayers would help protect the soul as it journeys. Without them, the soul would risk being lost in the Land of the Dead forever. The Land of the Dead was also seen as a dangerous place, and the prayers and mourning of those left behind were seen as something that could help speed the soul on its journey through the dangers. While in the Land of the Dead, the soul is vulnerable - to demons, curses, the flaws of the dead, necromancers - and speeding the soul through to the outer realms of the gods is important.

At the tenth day after death, or occasionally sooner, when the priests divined that the soul had reached it's final resting place, an elaborate farewell was held. This was usually not a time for grief, but for remembrance and celebration of the life of the deceased. After this farewell, the soul was seen as unconnected from the material plane and no longer tied to the body in any way. A variety of traditions grew up around the body. For the poor or the unsentimental, cremation was the default choice. But memory and remembrances are an important part of the [[Mos Numena]] tradition, and for some, the locus of memory was an elaborate crypt or funerary marker, although in many cases this might not actually contain the body.

Drankorian temples were often constructed around these rituals, with numerous alcoves for the display of bodies, and even crypts build to temporarily hold those who could not afford a grand alcove. Bodies and funerary markers, however, were not tied to temple architecture. The temples were seen as places for the rituals that protected a soul on its dangerous journey through the Land of the Dead, not the final home of the body. Usually any funerary markers would be in private homes or, for the high and mighty, civic buildings.

The ultimate destination of the soul - one of the outer realms of the gods - although imagined in stories, was always mysterious, even to the Drankorians.
#### Attitudes Towards Bodies
In the Drankorian tradition, the body is not vital to the rites. The miracle of transition, the soul entering the [[Land of the Dead]] is seen as automatic. So when there is no body, the ceremonies continue mostly as normal, often with a death mask or sculpture (if the family can afford it) standing in for the body. In times of war, for example, funerary rites might be held for many soldiers who died in battle, together, with the flag of the unit standing in for the body.

After the funerary rites, the disposition of the body is not a major religious concern, and cremation is quite common, although some bodies are preserved in crypts for remembrance.