## Haflings
 
Schwartz: I was thinking a little more about Halfling theology, too. Some schools of Buddhism have this notion that individuals are like waves in an ocean: these patterns that arise, and come together, and move, and come apart, but fundamentally are one. I think of that for Halflings conception of their identity as a race -- that they are individuals, but always part of the whole. And then that shapes profoundly their encounters with each other: that they're one single family, connected even if they haven't met. It's not a belief in personal reincarnation, exactly, but it's a different sort of relationship with death to have that sense of how individual and collective meet.
 
I wonder if there's something for halflings like a griot in West Africa or a skald -- individuals specifically designated to be history-bearers and storytellers. Maybe there are individuals especially deeply connected through some kind of practice into the racial memory, who tell stories from the past, and whose life work might be to compose a single story or song, like the viking eddas. Maybe each year of history has one particular song, or maybe there are sagas from different eras. Not necessarily that everyone would know all of them, but that these people would be part of the fabric of the culture. I love the idea that every year has a name.
 
Tim: Definitely think there should be some kind of story-teller/history-bearer in halfling culture, probably kind of equivalent to the priesthood in many ways, and also more strongly connected to the racial memory than the 'typical' halfling.