---
tags: [source]
---

*He tells of the first days of the [[People of the Rainbow]], before there was a cloak. He tells of Ilios the Bright, who fell through the world when he was just an infant, not yet chained to [[Thark]]'s will, and grew strong in the [[Fey]] realm of [[Amberglow]], under a sunset sky free of [[Thark]]'s influence. Ilios, it is said, had a [[Fey]] energy that could not be contained. His eyes shone with moonlight, and his swords flashed silver. He began to raid across the foothills of the [[Sentinel Range|Sentinels]], where small, disorganized groups of [[Orcs]], families and tribes hidden from the Drankorian patrols lived. Ilios stole the unchained babies from these tribes, and brought them to [[Amberglow]], where The [[People of the Rainbow]] grew in secret, protected by the [[Cloudspinner]].* 

*And then Azagar speaks of the blackness that tore out the sun, the rift through which darkness leaked. The invasion of [[Amberglow]] by a far distant evil, something of no world. Ilios leapt through this blackness and severed the cords that held this rift open, trapping himself to an unknown fate, but saving [[Amberglow]]. In honor of his sacrifice, the [[Cloudspinner]] wove the [[Cloak of Rainbows]], each thread plucked from the immortal sunsets of [[Amberglow]], each thread grasping the essence of the [[Riving]], the long pause, the splitting of the planes that created the [[Feywild]], and wrapping that energy of pulling, separating into a cloak that cut the wearer from the divine.*

*[[Azogar]]'s voice shifts, and he tells the story of the days in the world when the [[People of the Rainbow]] ventured forth, the quiet days, living lives of fields and flowers. In the story of their history, this was a remembered time of peace and happiness, but it could not last, for [[Azogar]] turns to the tale of [[Cha'mutte]], and [[Apollyon]].* 

*[[Cha'mutte]], it is said, traveled among the [[Orcs]], teaching them, preaching the fate he sought for all the people of the world: freedom from the divine, as the [[People of the Rainbow]] had found. But then betrayal, whether intentional or not, telling [[Apollyon]] of the dream, of the cloak. And then the war, and loss, and defeat as [[Apollyon]] turned on the [[Orcs]] and stole the cloak. That this because [[Apollyon]]'s downfall, as [[Cha'mutte]] turned on his former ally, was no comfort, and [[Azogar]] speaks bitter words as he tells how the cloak was lost and the [[People of the Rainbow]] scattered to hide in small groups where they could. 

*Until, after the [[Great War]], the hero [[Uzgash]] found the cloak unexpectedly amongst the ruins of a Dunmari fort, and with the cloak proclaimed the safe haven of [[Xurkhaz]], the land of the rising sun, a beacon of hope for the scattered [[People of the Rainbow]].* 