

### Clenseau
*population 1389*

Clenseau is a small market town of fifteen hundred souls, nestled on the north bank of the River Enst. Situated at a major crossing of the river, it is a natural gathering place and trade crossroads. The reason for the town’s existence, and most important feature, is the massive stone bridge over the River Enst. Built a thousand years ago by the Drankorians (or perhaps, even longer ago by the Giants, some scholars say), it is wide enough for eight oxen; it spans the 1200 feet of the Enst in ten graceful arches.

In addition to trade from the south, Clenseau is known for its fine metalworking community.

The town of Clenseau itself stands some five hundred yards from the river, just beyond the road as it curves to follow the course of the river east. The soil here is rocky and poor, and the landscape a mix of small wooded copses and rocky shrubland. The immediate surroundings of the town are fields, hardwon from the rocky soil, and to the east a large cowpasture and woodlot. In the summer, a handful of wooden docks appear along the bank, and small rafts fish for river trout, but these docks often wash away in the spring floods. The lifeblood of the town is the trade that comes along the [[Great South Road]] - without the river crossing, the land would be too marginal to really support such a large concentration of people.  

Stretched along the southeastern wall of the town, between the wall and the road, are three inns: [[The Bandit’s End]], more of a tavern than anything else, and the gathering place of veterans and mercenaries who make a living guarding caravans; [[The River’s Blessing]], a quiet place known for its fried trout and where the villagers from the east often stay when bringing goods to market; and [[The Fox’s Flagon]], popular with traders and merchants, but often quiet when no caravan is in town. But the largest and most important gathering place in the town is the [[Crossroads Inn]], an ancient, sprawling establishment built against the town walls near the south gate. For generations, it has been run by halflings, and mostly serves halfling traders, although anyone is welcome, and many townsfolk stop by in the evenings to hear the news and drink a pint of the famous millet ale. 
  
Past the inns, at the northeast end of town, is a large open field with several large, open-sided buildings. This is the town market. Every Sunday and Tuesday it is full of merchants selling wheat, pigs, fish, beef, millet, charcoal, and other staples of everyday life. It attracts many of the villagers east of the river, who often stay the night at [[the River’s Blessing]].  

The city walls are shaped like a bean, running north, then curving east before turning south, and then curving back southwest. Inside the walls are about two hundred houses, clustered tightly together in three neighborhoods. The South Close, by the gate, is drier during the spring and summer rains, being on slightly higher ground than the rest of the town, and is where the richer peasants and small artisans live. [[The Crossroads Inn]], on the west side of the gate, is here. The Garrison Quarter, in the east, is clustered around a large barracks set into the wall, where a garrison of the [[Army of the West]] is housed. A narrow dirt track runs along the interior of the southeast wall, lined with a number of small food stalls and shops. In the center of the town, the lords manor stands on an acre of raised land surrounded by its own wooden palisade. Outside the walls of the manor is a small square with a large cistern fed by an underground pipe system drawing water from the Enst. A further pipe system brings running water to some of the richer houses in the South Close, including the lord's manor and the Crossroads Inn. To the north of the manor lies the Farmer’s Quarter, where the bulk of the peasantry live.

There are three gates into the walled city: the North Gate, the Market Gate (in the east), and the River Gate (in the south, the main gate). All the gates are locked at night and staffed during the day by the lord’s household guard. Passage in and out of the city is unrestricted, but carrying weapons or wearing masks is not allowed save for members of the lord’s household or the [[Army of the West]].

On the south bank of the Enst, across the bridge, stands a large ruined garrison, the walls still standing but the roof collapsed, a reminder of a by-gone age when this was a major highway between the [[Istabor Alliance]] and [[Sembara]]. 

On the north bank, outside of the walls and west of the town, is a small cluster of single-room huts, often called Beggar’s Way. It is where the very poorest in the town eek out a living as day laborers.