# Races of Taelgar
 
There are three 'flavors' of [playable] races that exist in Taelgar. Five races ([elves](Elf.md), [dwarves](Dwarf%20-%20Old%20Draft%20Version.md), [goliath](Goliath.md), [lizardfolk](_DM_/OneNote/01_Mechanics/Races%20(Notes)/Lizardfolk.md), and [halflings](Halfling.md)) are known as the **Elder Races**. They were created by the Divine before time, through the influence and action of the **Firstborn** of their race. These races draw their strength and abilities through their connection to their Gods, which both gives them power and constrains them. While some of these races are relatively common (dwarves and halflings), others are uncommon (lizardfolk, goliath), or rare (elves). However, all are readily available as player character races, and can be found in all parts of the world as adventurers.
 
[Humans](_DM_/OneNote/01_Mechanics/Races%20(Notes)/Humans/Humans.md) are known as the **Younger Race**. They were created by the Divine at the beginning of time to spread and thrive across the world. These six races are the only ones with directly created by the Divine. Other races have come into existence through a variety of means, and are generally rarer and more esoteric.
 
The final group of races have a variety of origins, and are typically much rarer, or more restricted in where they live. [Gnomes](Gnome.md) are the sundered cousins of dwarves, now living in isolated communities in the deserts of the world. [Kenku](_DM_/OneNote/01_Mechanics/Races%20(Notes)/Kenku.md) arose with the blessing of the Divine, and draw power through their semi-divine creator, but are not a true Elder Race. Other races may lurk in hidden corners of the world: rumors of catfolk, wanderers of other Planes, and even dragon-kin drift across the land.