---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 51
realWorldDate: 2022-07-22
DR: 1748-08-29
DR_end: 1748-09-06
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
---

We start in combat, with the party fighting the shadow hunter and his shadow dogs. [[Seeker]], mostly drained of spells, turns into a Huge Giant Crab for the fight, which sadly does not last long. While [[Wellby]] deals with the dogs, and [[Kenzo]] flees due to the magical fear effect, the shadow hunter knocks [[Seeker]] unconscious and begins to flee with him, until saved by [[Delwath]] and banishing smite. 

After the battle, the party watches as the mask falls off the face of the shadow hunter, and in death he shifts to a normal human, looking pale and gaunt. As he dies, he warns or threatens the party that there are many more chalyte zombies in [[Chardon]] and it will not take long for [[Fausto]] to make more hunters. Before sleeping, the party looks at the mask in [[The Mirror of the Past]], seeing a [[Shadow Hunter's Mask Vision|vision of its past]].

Over the next two days, the party makes their way to [[Arendum]], arriving late at night and taking rooms at the [[Laughing Wolf Inn]], outside the gates. The next day – the first of September – the party spends in [[Arendum]], getting information and planting rumors, and sending letters back to the people they met in [[Chardon]], warning them of [[Fausto]]. From their time in [[Arendum]], they get the sense there is tension between the Chardonians and the Deno’qai: there are no Deno’qai in the town, and it feels like the town is organized around defense. [[Delwath]] buys supplies for a journey north, and spreads rumors about heading to the [[Dwarves]] and then over the mountains to [[Sembara|Sembara]].

The next day, the party heads north, before turning east and south at the confluence with the [[Kayan]] river, turning invisible as they depart the [[Chasa]]. For the next two days, the party travels along the [[Kayan]], invisible, passing pastures and dairy farmers, the occasional forester, and a Chardonian patrol returning from the eave of the woods. Traveling slowly to maintain invisibility during daylight, it takes two days to get into the depths of the [[Elderwood]]. 

By September 4th, the party is deep in the woods, following the [[Kayan]] river under the eaves of the giant redwoods of the forest. Around mid-morning, [[Kenzo]] begins straying from the path along the river, his staff seeming to lead him deeper into the woods. Deciding to follow, the party arrives as a massive clearing, at least 400 feet across. In the center stands a huge tree, towering over the forest itself, stretching maybe 400 feet into the sky, with a 50 foot diameter trunk. [[Kenzo]], drawn to the tree, goes into a trance, becoming one with the forest itself, feeling his perception extend and merge with the network of trees, experiencing the forest as a web of relationships between ancient entities. As [[Kenzo]] goes deeper in this trance, he touches something sour, an acidic corruption covered by a sickly sweet taste. Trying to probe deeper into the corruption, [[Kenzo]] is ejected from his trance, dazed. 

Meanwhile, the rest of the party has encountered a patrol from a Deno’qai village, led by [[Zevi of the Bek'eni]], a warrior from the [[Bek'eni]] tribe. He questions why they are in the [[Bek'eni]] forest, wonders at the behavior of [[Kenzo]], and asks the party to come with his band of warriors to their village, to meet [[Mezzar]], an [[Elves]] who has been advising and aiding the [[Bek'eni]] for the past 10 years. The party agrees to go, helps [[Kenzo]] stand and walk, and heads 5 miles east with the [[Bek'eni]].

Arriving at the village, the party meets [[Zaro]], the chief of the village, and [[Itar]], the Godcaller. [[Delwath]] is treated like a lord, offered a place of honor at dinner, while the rest of the party is relegated to meager accommodations. [[Zaro]] and especially [[Itar]] talk a lot about [[Mezzar]], saying he is expected in the next couple of days and he will be eager to meet [[Delwath]]. [[Itar]] knows little about the tanshi, but is eager to talk about [[Elves|elves]] and [[Mezzar]], and dresses in an imitation of the elven style. The party learns that [[Mezzar]] is trying to deal with the corruption of the [[Te'kula]], and has been taking villagers from the [[Bek'eni]] and training them for this purpose. The party goes to sleep, a little suspicious of [[Mezzar]] but also eager to meet another [[Elves]], especially [[Delwath]]. 

The next morning, while [[Kenzo]] is discussing his experience with the God tree (having been incoherent the day before), [[Wellby]] catches a woman, apparently not well-treated by the tribe, listening in. She introduces herself as [[Theba]], the former Godcaller, ousted by [[Mezzar]]. She tries to convince the party to help her recover her magic gear, taken by [[Mezzar]] (who claimed it belonged to the tribe, not her), and then flee with her to investigate what is really going on with the [[Te'kula]] (she offers to guide the party if they help her recover her stuff). [[Theba]] tells them of another [[Elves]], [[Belegor]], who stayed for a while and then vanished after speaking with [[Mezzar]], and does not want the party to suffer that fate. 

Suspicious but not swayed, the party goes to the God tree. [[Delwath]] scries [[Belegor]] from a drawing [[Seeker]] makes based on [[Theba]]’s description, but the scry fails. [[Kenzo]] communes more with the God tree, reaching out and feeling two [[Elves|elves]] in the forest (one here, one to the south), which the party assumes are [[Mezzar]] and [[Delwath]], despite learning that [[Mezzar]] is supposed to come from the East. 

After returning to the [[Bek'eni]] village, the party debates what to do. Still uncertain, they decide to at least get [[Theba]]’s gear for her. Clairvoyance reveals the layout of the house, and a basement with a small treasure pile (including [[Theba]]’s gear), plus two things that look like patrolling clouds of poisonous gas. [[Delwath]] scouts and encounters large poisonous snakes hiding in the trees, and learns the two statues by the front door are magic and probably trapped. [[Seeker]] and [[Delwath]] dimension door into the stairs to the basement, where [[Delwath]] dashes to grab [[Theba]]’s gear (taking an attack from the poison cloud), and then both [[Seeker]] and [[Delwath]] flee with teleportation magic. 

That night, the party decides in the morning they will meet [[Mezzar]] by the God tree, but be ready for a fight. The next morning, the chief [[Zaro]] is reluctant to let them leave for the God tree until [[Seeker]] uses Suggestion on him. The party then proceeds to the God tree to wait for [[Mezzar]]. 