#### Session 32

**(Thursday, Oct 7th, 2021; in Taelgar, June 8th to June 20th)

The party spends a little more than a week in [[Karawa]], taking care of various activities around town. [[Kenzo]] and [[Drikod]] spend the time preparing for the ritual of initiation into the [[Shakun Mystai]], culminating in the [initiation ritual](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18pWViOdRUlZYB022HiltIWsfXaoxcB7bN1cUSGpOrbY/edit) on the evening before the [[Feast of Bhishma]]. [[Wellby]] spends the time working on his map, training with [[Baxter]], and traveling to [[Bas Udda]] with [[Havdar]] and members of his band, to recover the treasure the party left there. [[Seeker]] spent his time studying the artifacts recovered from [[Agata]], especially the [[Mirror of Soul Trapping]], as well as visiting the mesa with [[Candrosa]] for a tour of the living gardens of stone. [[Delwath]] spent his time closing his affairs in [[Karawa]] and gathering rumors, as well as spending a day and a night in the desert learning more about his patron and source of power. 

During the week of downtime, [[Seeker]] and [[Delwath]] discover more about the [[Mirror of Soul Trapping]], including new command words. Using these and a lucky guess as to the hobgoblin’s name, the party also interrogates [[Revaka]], the hobgoblin leader they once saw in the mirror. She is distanful and haughty, and initially refuses to speak with [[Delwath]] (“the [[Elves]]”), but eventually the party learns from her a few key pieces of information. She was trapped in the mirror hundreds of years ago, in the 2nd year of the reign of [[Derik III]] of [[Sembara|Sembara]] (DR 1521), by [[Cha'mutte]]. The hobgoblin tribes on the fringes of [[Sembara|Sembara]] were being recruited into [[Cha'mutte]]’s armies, but [[Revaka]] did not want the risk and war of world domination, preferring to maintain her small empire on the fringes of the human world. The mirror itself was made by her grandfather, a wizard in service to the [[Emperor Avatus]], now a footnote in history as the foil for the rise of the [[House of Sewick]] of [[Sembara|Sembara]]. 

During this week, the party also looked at the [[Soul Lantern]] in [[Eudomes' Mirror]], specifically focusing on [[Soul Lantern Vision|visions of the people that the mirror harmed]].

The first morning of the [[Feast of Bhishma]], the party gathered for breakfast all together for the first time in several days, against the backdrop of the morning prayers of remembrance that mark the beginning of the feast days. [[Delwath]] had just returned from and day and a night in the desert, where he learned that his patron, [[Yezali|Aaviskar]], is a small god of an unknown northern tribe, also trapped in the shadow realm at the end of the [[Great War]], who had in desperation thrown a connection to [[Delwath]] as [[Delwath]] fell from the shadow realm almost a year ago. 

Several others then shared their [[Dreamworld]] experience, guided by [[Candrosa]]'s [[Dreamweaver Staff]]. [[Kenzo]] spoke of his vision of [[Drankor]], where he spoke with [[Rai]] out of time, and saw a vision of the struggle at the heart of [[Drankor]], between the desire for power and greed and the supremacy of humans, and the inclusive vision of a beacon of hope against the darkness. The [[Jade]] fragments of the hand of [[Rai]], which [[Kenzo]] saw shatter into five pieces in his vision, are connected to some kind of shield protecting [[Drankor]], and perhaps its descendants like [[Chardon]], the darker side of human nature. 

[[Seeker]] also shared his dream vision, of a strange place that seemed to be a map or picture of the planes, like the inside of a sphere of stars with many moving crystal realms floating across it, and elemental planes of earth, air, fire, and water. Through a arch of fire, [[Seeker]] reported a vision of the fiery plane, a city of brass surrounded by pillars of flame on a burning plain with mercury rain. 

The morning prayers of remembrance associated with the [[Feast of Bhishma]] then drew the party’s attention, as [[Cintra]] emerged at this moment to aid in the destruction of the [[Soul Lantern]]. Over the course of the day, the party moved from table to table, speaking with [[Alesh]] and [[Ikram]] and others from the early days of [[Karawa]]. [[Alesh]], always talkative, spoke more of the situation in [[Tokra]]: crowded, and not just with Dunmari; rumors of something stolen from the [[Archives]]; and Chardonian mages camped with the armies of the Samraat [[Nayan Karnas]]. 

The next morning, the party spoke with Nayan [[Sura]]. She asked them to pledge themselves to her service, and while no one was willing to commit that level of engagement, they agreed to be allies. A few hours later, [[Sura]] spoke to the assembled Dunmari of [[Karawa]], announcing herself and asking if those her would be with her, gods willing. With significant support, she and [[Havdar]] planned to ride across the plains to gauge support and gather an army before arriving in [[Tokra]] to speak with the [[Lakan Mystai]] and ask the gods what to do next, what was the way forward for [[Dunmar]]. 

Before leaving [[Karawa]], the party also spoke with two other people. One, a Dunmari citizen of [[Karawa]], had found the [[The Runes of Creation]], the book of runes that [[Seeker]] carries in the desert, and after some cajoling and promises not to reveal his secrets, learned that this man often scavenged for sellable loot in the desert. He had found three books some time ago, two filled with strange writing and one blank, and had sold the ones with writing to [[Servius]], a Chardonian who worked for some library in [[Chardon]]. He found them on an [[Orcs|orc]], an ancient individual, with wrinkled skin, dried out almost like leather, who carried nothing but a ripped pouch and these three books. 

[[Seeker]], [[Wellby]], and [[Kenzo]] also spent some time speaking telepathically (via [[Wellby]]) with [[Selkan]], the [[Order of the Awakened Soul|Mystai of Bhishma]] freed from the mirror. He went to [[Agata]] to trade information for information, hoping to learn more about the other planes, but once he realized what [[Agata]] really was, he swore to speak no more to her, or anyone, and cut off his own tongue to prevent her from charming him into revealing the secrets of his order. He told [[Wellby]] that [[Saka]], the old mystai near [[Tokra]], could tell more. She was from an old horse-herding family that traveled across the northern plains, and is likely with them still. 

The morning after the [[Feast of Bhishma]], the party leaves [[Karawa]]: [[Drikod]], heading north and back to his village, and the rest of the party heading west, towards [[Tokra]]. 