# Session 28

**(Monday, July 19th, 2021; in Taelgar, May 27th to May 29th)

The session begins with the party still scattered across various hiding places, as the vaguely human creature known as [[Samerki]] seemingly disappears. However, [[Cintra]] warns the party to stay put, as this creature has, in the past, disappeared for some time to lull interlopers into complacency and then descended again with a blast of cold to freeze and kill them. Sure enough, after some time passes the creature returns, invisible, chasing [[Delwath]]’s shadow and seemingly not noticing anyone else. After a blast of cold air damages but does not kill the shadow, [[Samerki]] grapples it, and flies above the canyon floor to drop it to its death, and then continues to circle, invisible but audible to [[Wellby]]’s sharp ears. As he circles, he taunts [[Cintra]], and makes it clear that he is a servant of [[Agata]] Dustmother.

While [[Drikod]] remains hidden in stone, and [[Wellby]] and [[Delwath]] plot a way to get across the 15 feet of bare rock to the canyon edge, [[Kenzo]] and [[Seeker]] watch as [[Shakun’s Wellspring]] fills with water, and [[Cintra]] retrieves the Heart of [[Shakun]] from its resting place within. Using the Heart, she begins to spin a web of illusion that expands to fill the canyon, creating an impenetrable mess of jumbled rocks and tangled rubble. [[Kenzo]], drawn in by [[The Heart of Shakun]], lets it reach out and connect with him, and the added energy of his will contributing to [[Cintra]]’s allows the illusion to expand to encompass [[Wellby]] and [[Delwath]] hiding at the canyon’s edge. 

As [[Drikod]] descends and [[Wellby]] and [[Delwath]] fly down in turn, the party settles into camp to hear [[Cintra]]’s story. As she tells it, she did indeed come to the Wellspring because her daughter was ill, and she had dreams that she thought were from [[Shakun]] telling her to come here. However, when she arrived, she found [[Agata]] and [[Samerki]] waiting, and [[Agata]] charmed her. While she did not reveal the existence of the Heart, she couldn’t help but tell [[Agata]] that her daughter was strong in [[Shakun]]’s power. Believing [[Jumi]] to be the key, [[Agata]] took her, warning [[Cintra]] as the charm faded not to leave the Wellspring or her daughter would die. This was in February, and [[Samerki]] watched ever since, killing one group that came to attempt a rescue. 

While [[Cintra]] was not sure of [[Agata]]’s ultimate goals, she believed that [[Agata]] thought [[Jumi]] was the key to power over the Dunmari border, although exactly why [[Agata]] wanted such thing no one really knew, beyond speculation that she had made a bargain with someone or something. [[Cintra]] also believed that [[Agata]] was searching for something, a cloak or [[Mantle of Protection]] from divine influence, that would silence the gods and allow [[Agata]] to extract what power she could from [[Jumi]], perhaps even turning her into a foul fey creature. At this, [[Seeker]] recalled that he had read of this cloak in a mostly-destroyed book on the ancient artifacts of the last ruler of [[Drankor]], [[Emperor Apollyon]], who sought to become as a god himself. The cloak, it is said, could create dead zones where gods could not reach and divine magic had no power.

With the story told, the discussion turned to how to get the Heart back to [[Karawa]] without endangering [[Cintra]]’s daughter, focusing on either luring [[Agata]] to the Wellspring with [[Jumi]], or luring [[Agata]] away from her lair and sneaking in to rescue [[Jumi]]. After a long debate, ultimately the party decided to wait and ask [[Shakun]] whether [[Agata]] was coming with [[Jumi]], and adjust tactics based on [[Shakun]]’s answer.

The next day around midday, the answer came: [[Agata]] was traveling with [[Jumi]]. So the party set their trap. Everyone would wait in the Wellspring until a signal, hopefully [[Jumi]] entering the Wellspring, and then would emerge and attack. Amazingly, the plan worked. As [[Jumi]] -- or, apparently [[Jumi]], for she looked like a toddler sized wooden puppet with a human, fleshy face -- entered and said “now”, the party emerged to fight [[Agata]] and [[Samerki]]. 

The battle was tough, as [[Agata]] opened with a swarm of biting locusts emerging from her robes, and soon after healed herself with a swarm of fey wasps. [[Samerki]], the oni, managed to catch [[Kenzo]], [[Cintra]], and [[Seeker]] in his blast of cold, knocking [[Kenzo]] and [[Seeker]] unconscious momentarily. But a key stun from [[Kenzo]], consistent damage from [[Wellby]] and [[Delwath]], and finally the killing blow from [[Wellby]]’s bow at point blank range turned the tide for the party.