---
tags: [status/unknown]
---

**(Friday, July 24th, 2020; in Taelgar, morning March 30, to early afternoon, April 4)**

The session begins with everybody but [[Kenzo]] meeting for breakfast at [[Ikram’s]] caravanserai. [[Wellby]] shares a message and [[Letter from Candrosa|letter]] from [[Candrosa]], informing the party that scouts are investigating rumors of attacks to the south and east, and that a council in a few days time will meet to decide what to do. The presence of the Heroes of [[Karawa]] is requested at this council. After being informed that [[Kenzo]] is meditating at the summit of the [[Red Mesa]] on the southern border of town, the party heads up to meet him; on the way [[Seeker]] is reminded of the geological oddity that the [[Temple of Shakun]], carved into the cliff wall of the mesa, seems to be older than the mesa itself. 

Here, some discussion ensues of various pre-dawn encounters. [[Kenzo]] tells the party about [[Dreamweaver Staff|Candrosa's staff]], which sent him to a starry void filled with flickering lights of all colors and shapes (reminding [[Seeker]] of his coming of age vision), and then to the [[Dreamworld]], a mirror realm that is like and very unlike Taelgar. Here, he saw a robed man with a staff, who told him to seek the [[Order of the Awakened Soul]]. While no one in the party knows much about this order, there are legends of mystics that roam the desert and go by this name. After some discussion of magic, planes, and the gods, [[Wellby]] begins to tell his story.

During the night, he learned more about [[Ander Charmheart|Ander]], the sick halfling who the party met the day before, from his sister [[Callie Charmheart|Callie]]. The halfling caravan came south from [[Sembara|Sembara]] through the mountains, passing an abandoned old Dunmari fortress and stronghold known as [[Raven's Hold]]. [[Ander Charmheart|Ander]] went exploring, finding a way past the walls. Beyond the wall he was exploring when he heard a chanting in a strange language, and a thorny vine reached out to grab him. He was able to break free, but the vine grabbed him and bloodied his leg. Within a few days, he was starting to change, he was either consumed by ravenous hunger for raw flesh or raving about the coming master who would consume the world. 

That afternoon, the party goes back to [[Jasu]]’s workshop to see the silver spearpoints he described the day before. These are clearly magical, and decorated with designs that suggest some power against undead. [[Jasu]] also says that [[Arcus]] was expected back several weeks ago, and he was surprised and annoyed he did not return. [[Seeker]] shows [[Jasu]] his design for a lightweight chain throwing net. Even though [[Jasu]] was left unpaid by [[Arcus]], he agrees to cash on delivery for this new commission.

Over the next few days, a few things happen. The gifts from the grateful town accumulate for the party, including a book dropped off by an anonymous donor for [[Seeker]] entitled “[[The Runes of Creation]].” [[Delwath]] spends some time listening for rumors, [[Seeker]] studies his new book, [[Kenzo]] competes in the staff dancing competition, and [[Kenzo]] and [[Wellby]] both compete in the axebeak riding competition. 

Before the competitions begin, [[Delwath]] hears a number of rumors. Right now the town seems mostly happy, the dire news of attacks to the south having not yet reached the ears of anyone but [[Candrosa]] and the village elders. A joyful mood at the festival and being saved from the rampaging beasts permeates [[Delwath]]’s conversations, although with an undercurrent of sadness for the lives lost. [[Delwath]] learns that [[Arcus]] was only in town for a few days and didn’t leave much of an impression, but he was not the first traveler from foreign parts to pass through town in the past few months. Most of the rumors involve ruins and artifacts: the name [[Raven's Hold]] is mentioned, as is the claim that the [[Temple of Shakun]] has a number of ancient artifacts, and the angry fear that [[Chardon]] is trying to steal [[Dunmar]]’s heritage. Some people are also concerned though: the rumors of a storm that won’t end to the north arises again, and some people feel that the gods must have abandoned [[Karawa]] for these events to be happening. 

The staff dancing competition involves a bout with a quarterstaff on a balance beam: the first contestant to fall off loses. As rumors of [[Kenzo]]’s prowess have spread, he competes in the master’s division. [[Kenzo]] puts on an incredible performance, drawing a large crowd and defeating his quarterfinal and semifinal matches with ease. For the finals, he faces off against [[Jayden]], a blindingly fast woman who makes up for her lack of expertise with the quarterstaff with raw speed and balance. In a masterful display of skill and raw agility, [[Kenzo]] ducks, dodges, and knocks her off the balance beam. [[Seeker]] is inspired to create a series of drawings depicting individual moments in the action. He combines these drawings into a sequence, entitling it “The Legendary Staff of [[Kenzo]].” He names this new art form the “graphic novel.” 

The axebeak riding competition draws some of the biggest crowds of the festival. The race works by just marking how far down the course each person gets before falling off. [[Wellby]] attempts to feed his beast, but the creature takes a giant bite out of his hand and goes charging down the course. Despite bleeding from his hand, Welby manages to keep control over his beast for a long way, ending up nearly the furthest down the track, and eventually finishes third. [[Kenzo]] however does not do so well, falling well short of the lead.

The morning of April 4th, [[Alesh]] and [[Havdar]] are back from scouting and the council begins. In addition to the party, the council includes [[Alesh]], [[Havdar]], [[Suma]] (priestess of [[Jeevali]]), [[Candrosa]], and Elder [[Kisa]] (unofficial mayor/leader of the town). After much discussion and news, [[Havdar]] proposes an immediate counter-offensive to defeat the bands of hyena-like humanoids attacking to the south; [[Alesh]] proposes sending a messenger to Samraat [[Nayan Karnas]], the current king of [[Dunmar]]; [[Candrosa]] and [[Kisa]] believe the town must be fortified for defense; and [[Suma]] proposing fleeing west to [[Tokra]], to a more defensible position that is less isolated and alone. With no consensus, the council turns to the party for input. [[Seeker]] annotates a large paper map of the area, and conjures glowing illusory figures moving around above it, representing the various options for movement of troops and townspeople. After much debate, it is decided that the vast majority of the Dunmari (and festival visitors) will flee west, with [[Havdar]] and his troops (plus whomever he can recruit among the festival population of the town) providing a rear-guard defense for this retreat. [[Candrosa]] and a few other acolytes of [[Shakun]], who will not abandon their temple, will fortify themselves inside the temple and hope to hide from any attack. [[Alesh]] and a few companions will scout again to the south, trying to learn more about the threat there. An emissary will be found to ride to the king with all speed, and argue for a muster and a defense of the border. And the party will head north, to [[Raven's Hold]], to seek what information may lie there.

