---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 52
realWorldDate: 2022-07-23
DR: 1748-09-06
DR_end: 1748-09-30
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
---

We begin as the party waits at the God tree for the [[Elves|elf]] [[Mezzar]], debating whether to wait or to flee. While doing so, they look at the God tree in [[The Mirror of the Past]], seeing [[God Tree Vision|a vision]].

The party then sets an ambush: [[Wellby]] is hiding behind a minor illusion of a coil of rope on a wooden platform suspended 30 feet above the ground, while [[Kenzo]] waits about 100 feet up in the lower branches of the God tree. [[Mezzar]] arrives, introduces himself, and attempts to cast Suggestion to first get [[Seeker]], and then [[Delwath]] (twice) to step away with him and have a conversation privately for a few minutes. The spells fail, and [[Wellby]], seeing the third attempt, shoots an arrow as combat breaks out. The combat is initially going well for the party, as [[Seeker]] turns into a Huge Giant Crab and [[Mezzar]]’s attempt to dominate the beast fails. But as the spell fails, [[Mezzar]] shifts form, turning from an [[Elves|elf]] to an adult green dragon, and takes to the air. After a blast of poison gas from his breath weapon catches all of the party and kills every Deno’qai who came with [[Mezzar]] from the village, things look rough and the party decides to flee. The heroic rope [[Ladder]] remains behind, tangling with the dragon, sacrificing itself so the party can escape. 

After the [[Dragons|dragon]] leaves to go back to the village, the party takes the time to bury the dead, leave a letter explaining what has happened, and construct a crude stone monument with Wall of Stone, before leaving for the clearing to the south where [[Theba]] said she would meet them the following day. 

[[Theba]] arrives early the next morning, after [[Delwath]] has spent the pre-dawn and early morning hours scrying, learning that the [[Bek'eni]] are out hunting for the party (presumably), and the letter they left describing what happened has been torn up. [[Theba]] leads the party quickly through the forest to the [[Te'kula]] territory, covering the 110 mile journey in a little more than 3 days, thanks to [[Theba]]’s guidance. 

On the afternoon of September 10th, the party arrives at the boundary of the [[Te'kula]] village, which has been shifting into a pocket dimension. [[Theba]] warns the party not to leave the path, which twists and turns through dense forest. Despite seeing scenes of fears (whether actually occurring or imagined) and other images, the party enters the village of the [[Te'kula]]. 

In the village they are greeted by [[Yota]], the chief of the village, and [[Alayah]], the young Godcaller. [[Alayah]] has been expecting the party, having dreamed of [[Kenzo]] before. When the party meets, [[Alayah]]’s [[Jade Piece of Rai's Hand]] and [[Kenzo]]’s [[Jade Piece of Rai's Hand]] are drawn together, and they tentatively let them touch, transporting [[Alayah]] and [[Kenzo]] into a [[First Dream of Rai|dream]]. 

After the vision, the party has dinner with the village. From [[Alayah]], they learn the story of the [[Te'kula]]. Thirty years ago, [[Jordo]] found the [[Jade Piece of Rai's Hand]] embedded in a fallen God tree, and took it, starting to have dreams of [[Rai]]. When [[Mezzar|Grimbaskal]] came asking to trade for the [[Jade Piece of Rai's Hand]], he refused, defiantly, and for his refusal the village was attacked. Many died, but in desperation [[Jordo]] called out to the tanshi, and miraculously the [[Te'kula]] were sheltered in a pocket dimension.

Later, [[Delwath]] and the [[Elves]] [[Belegor]] have a chance to speak. He talks of what happened to the [[Elves|elves]]: many were killed in the battles against [[Cha'mutte]]’s lieutenants during the [[Great War]], and many of the survivors turned inward, to isolationist, hiding their settlements away in secret places, or even in the [[Feywild]]. However, many [[Elves|elves]] also vanished, and [[Belegor]] does not know exactly where they went. Some think they were pulled away to other planes, as [[Cha'mutte]] died and his attempted unraveling of the separation of the planes failed. Others think they left to fight evil across the dimensions, or they fled, teleporting whole cities to other planes. 

[[Belegor]] returned from the wars to have children, but did not want to stay hidden forever, so when his children were grown old enough to join their generation-mates he left the hidden town of their birth to wander. He found the Deno’qai, and spent some time with the [[Bek'eni]], but when he met [[Mezzar]], he was suspicious. [[Mezzar]] attempted to geas him, and when he resisted, turned to a dragon and drove him off. He found the [[Te'kula]], and has been hiding here ever since. 

That night, [[Delwath]] prays to [[Yezali|Aaviskar]], and understands the truth of the dimension that protects the [[Te'kula]]. The tanshi do not normally have power to influence the material world so directly, but through the power of the [[Jade Piece of Rai's Hand]], which formed a hole through which the [[tanshi]] could act, [[Aasimti]], the spirit of the forest leaves and dappled shadows, managed to create a pocket dimension that could not be accessed without their consent. 

That night, [[Kenzo]] and [[Alayah]] also [[Second Dream of Rai|dream]] together. 

The next morning, [[Delwath]] speaks with the old woman [[Ariel]], who remembers the lost tanshi and tells him they can be found in the [[Forest of Dreams]], to the north. Then [[Theba]] approaches, telling the party she has been praying all night and decided they must fight the dragon. 

War planning then commences, with [[Theba]] and the [[tanshi]] offering blessings to help, and [[Obel]], an old ranger whose parents and brother were killed by the original attack volunteering to join as well. 

The next morning, on Sept 12th, the party leaves for [[Mezzar|Grimbaskal]]’s lair, traveling with the guidance of [[Obel]], [[Theba]], and the [[tanshi]] for the next three days, arriving at the lair on September 15th. The forest is warm, almost tropical, dense and close here, the tang of saccharine sweetness in the air covering the rot, the only animals snakes that stare at the party as they pass. The lair itself is a cave underground, in the rotted out root complex of a God tree. A massive banyan tree grows around where the trunk of the God tree once was, forming a tunnel the dragon can fly out of. Shafts in the earth provide light and ventilation for the cave below. 

The party prepares for the fight, and enters the lair both above and from the main entrance. Although the dragon is waiting for them, and has four snake-person minions with him, careful planning helps ensure the battle goes well for the party. A well-placed Wall of Stone traps the snake minions, and the metal anchor chain animated by [[Seeker]] manages to grapple the dragon, keeping it pinned to the ground for a few rounds, until it is also destroyed. [[Delwath]], [[Theba]], and [[Kenzo]] fly around the dragon, getting consistent solid hits despite its high Constitution making stun almost impossible to pull off, and [[Wellby]] is able to pincushion it with arrows. Finally, [[Kenzo]] manages to bring the dragon down with a massive magical punch, and it comes crashing down on its hoard. 

After a breather, the party spends the next day gathering [[Mezzar|Grimbaskal]]'s treasure joard, with many thousands of coins, plentiful gems, and beautiful objects of art and magical items. Spending three days to return to the [[Te'kula]], the party then enjoys some well deserved rest and downtime to train, while the treasure is gathered and divided up, and the bodies of the Deno’qai transformed by [[Mezzar|Grimbaskal]] are collected and given a proper burial. Messengers go out to the other tribes, and [[Theba]] organizes a diplomatic mission to break the news of [[Mezzar]]’s deception and the other corrupting influences the [[Dragons|dragon]] had on the forest. [[Kenzo]] speaks with [[Alayah]], who turns over her [[Jade Piece of Rai's Hand]] to him at the fallen God tree, where he also takes some wood to carve into figurines to give to people whose stories he collects. 

During this time, the party also looks at two items in the [[The Mirror of the Past|mirror of Eudomes]], seeing the [[Mace of Terror Vision]] and the [[Hralgar's Eyes Vision]].

Finally, on September 30th, the party leaves, with [[Theba]], a diplomatic mission, and the [[Elves]] [[Belegor]], to go to visit the rest of the Deno’qai tribes. As [[Kenzo]] leaves the pocket dimension with both jades, the portal allowing the [[tanshi]] to reach the world disappears, and the [[Te'kula]] territory returns to the material plane. 

As the pocket dimension closes, the party is caught in the backlash. For a moment, briefly, they can see each other being pulled in different directions: [[Wellby]], to a ship approaching the jagged coastline of an island far across [[Green Sea]]; [[Delwath]], to a campfire hidden in the [[Forest of Dreams]]; [[Seeker]], to a meadow of butterflies with two satyrs frolicking across it; [[Kenzo]], to a dense, tropical forest, the wooden paths of a [[lizardfolk]] village just visible amongst the greenery. In this moment, you realize what is happening and you all think to each other, find a way to the [[Feywild]], to the portal near [[Stormcaller Tower]], we will meet again there. And then, you are falling. 