#### Session 36

**(Wednesday, Dec 22nd, 2021; in Taelgar, July 1st - July 2nd)

Our session begins as the party crosses [[Jita]]’s Square, leaving [[Kirian’s]] after dinner and heading for the [[Archives]], to keep watch of signs of werewolves in the night, as the full moon rises. At the [[Archives]], the party debates what to do, while [[Ardan]] summons extra guards. During the debate, the party hears a piercing howl, cut short. After initially splitting up to cover more ground, the party reconvenes in the basement of the [[Archives]], where the Hardstone clan quarters are and the howls are coming from. 

A werewolf has broken loose from some chains, and despite the [[Dwarves]] telling the party to go, they stay and subdue it without damage. [[Fallthra Hardstone]] runs sobbing to the dwarven boy that the stunned werewolf shifts into – her son [[Dag Hardstone]], cursed with lycanthropy in the attack on the archive some weeks ago. He started feeling the effects a few nights ago as the moon waxed towards full, but Fallthra, her husband [[Delig Hardstone]], and her brother [[Morkral Hardstone]] thought they could handle it somehow. After Dag is subdued, [[Delwath]] communes with his patron, who still has some divine connection, and is able to restore Dag to himself. At this point, [[Kenzo]] returns to check on the monastery, while the rest of the party sleeps in the [[Archives]], keeping watch through the night. 

In the morning, the party meets at [[Darshana’s caravanserai]] outside the west gates of [[Tokra]], to try to learn more about [[Govir]]’s comings and goings from the old soldiers he swapped stories with there. [[Darshana]] points them to a small group of older veterans who she says [[Govir]] hung around with. One of them, [[Ashar]], missing an eye from his time fighting gnolls during the [[Summer of Red Storms]], is happy to chat. He tells the stories of his battles that summer, and then moves on to speak of [[Govir]]. He came to chat about a month ago, asking about strange old forts north of the city. He had brought some map that he said was a clue, as well as records of the battle against the [[Fraternity of the Empty Moon]]. He wanted to go explore the ruins to find out how the gods protected the soldiers that fought for [[Dunmar]] there, saying the gods would protect him too. After some discussion of the fort, [[Ashar]]’s friend revealed he had snuck there on a dare as a child, but it was horrible – nightmares for weeks, imagining killing his friends and being pleased with himself for it. 

After speaking with [[Ashar]] the party decides to head north, looking for [[Saka]] and investigating the fort. But as they return to [[Kirian’s]] to leave word, they are greeted by a small patrol from the Dunmari army, summoning them to come speak with the commander of the army, [[Illyan]]. The captain of the patrol, [[Amay]], agrees to give the party a few moments in their quarters to get organized. During this time [[Seeker]] casts clairvoyance on the commander’s tent, seeing him reading papers after breakfast, and then hearing a discussion where he is asking what is taking his men so long to get back with the party. He then notices a ring on his finger glowing, swears, and gets the Chardonian mage, [[Drusa]], who sees the clairvoyance sensor. 

The party then goes to meet with [[Illyan]]. When they arrive, the camp is on alert, and [[Drusa]], the mage, tells them they may not enter carrying magic or weapons due to a recent spying attempt on the commander. Everyone refuses to comply, until [[Kenzo]] resolves the standoff by agreeing to go in himself, without magic or weapons. 

Meeting with [[Illyan]], [[Kenzo]] admits to the clairvoyance, convincing the commander that this was a reasonable precaution given everything they have faced with [[Agata]] and the dangers of hags. [[Illyan]] is angry with the party for the spying and their refusal to even meet the demands to speak with him, but he senses the godly presence on [[Kenzo]] and decides not to kill him for the capital crime of spying on an army commander in the field. [[Illyan]] has summoned the party because the high priestess of [[Tokra]], [[Kaleha]], has prayed and received a vision from [[Sonkar]] that to her suggests the gods greatest desire is to avoid Dunmari fighting Dunmari. [[Kaleha]] has tasked [[Illyan]] with finding out what [[Sura]] wants, and whether she will agree to a truce to put the matter of the rightful ruler of [[Dunmar]] in the hands of the gods. He tasks the party with bringing [[Sura]] this message of truce. 

The party decides to use their scroll of sending to avoid the potentially long journey across the plains. [[Seeker]] sends the message: “Kahela knows. Offers truce: stay east of river, they will stay west while priests discern gods' will. [[Sonkar]] dreads war. Accept? Send messenger, safety promised.” [[Sura]] replies, “I also wish to know the gods’ will. I do not know how their will will be known. But until then, I will not fight.” This is enough to satisfy [[Illyan]] for now, and he gives the party permission to continue on their business, but to let him know when they return to town from their journey north.

Heading north of [[Tokra]], the party decides after some debate to at least briefly investigate the old ruins before turning upriver to look for [[Saka]]. Cutting across the plains, [[Wellby]]’s sharp eyes and halfling luck turn up footprints and claw prints in the dry earth. Turning south to follow the trail, the party comes to a small depression in the ground with a small pile of rubble and stone at the southern end. [[Seeker]]’s sharp eyes and familiarity with stone and earth reveal that the rubble hides a hidden tunnel heading southeast, towards the city a thousand feet or so away. After debating how to avoid the crossbow trap pointed at the rubble, [[Seeker]] eventually just digs through the dirt to drop into the tunnel from above. The party travels some ways underground, until they come to a steel door. As [[Delwath]] looks through the door to reveal a room with four large, grotesque statues, the session ends as the party swings the door open and the statues’ heads turn in alarm. 