---
tags: [status/unknown]
---

**(Friday, May 13th, 2022; in Taelgar, Aug 8th - Aug 9th)**

We begin as the party reaches [[Darba]], after the journey along the increasingly populated road. Along the way, [[Riswynn]] was able to contact [[Marcella]] on August 8th, the day the party arrived in [[Darba]]. [[Marcella]] said she was hoping to flee the following day, during the battle with kobolds. As the day ends, the party splits up to enter [[Darba]] – the [[Dwarves]] going together to hope to connect with [[Riswynn]]’s contact from [[Tharn Todor]]; [[Wellby]] heading to find a halfling inn and enquire about ships; and [[Delwath]], [[Johar]], and [[Kenzo]] going to the harbor to try to find [[Johar]] a ship to [[Nayahar]]. 

In a tavern in the dwarven quarter of [[Darba]], [[Riswynn]] and [[Seeker]] meet [[Travok Redpeak]], recently arrived from [[Tharn Todor]]. He tells them about recent events in the north - [[Magran Boulderbeard]]  and about twenty dwarven warriors confronted a group of Chardonian adventurers near [[Raven's Hold]], and drove them off, and then cleared the hold of the creatures dwelling there, some kind of twisted worshippers of mind flayers from the [[Great War]]. The Chardonians were supposedly mercenaries, four humans, a lizardfolk, and a halfling, with a large purse to purchase items from the Stoneborn; but they seemed to have not had much success. [[Magran Boulderbeard]] recently returned to [[Tharn Todor]] ready to lead an army against [[Chardon]], but the council pushed to try diplomacy first. 

Travok also reminds [[Riswynn]], and tells [[Seeker]], the story of the [[Chalice of the Runepriest]]. It was found when the [[Dwarves]] fleeing the destruction of the kingdom of [[Ardith]] at the end of the [[Great War]] reached the [[Yuvanti Mountains]], in a chamber carved and prepared deep beneath the ground, reminiscent of [[Heart of the Mountain]]. When it was first found, it flowed with salt water (some say, the tears of the [[Bahrazel]]; others a memory of the ocean that once covered the land), and marked where [[Tharn Todor]] was constructed. Later, it was taken north by a large rescue mission that went looking for survivors from Ardtih, as many [[Dwarves]] were lost at the beginning of the [[Blood Years]]. It was hoped the Chalice could be a beacon, a guide to survivors who could still be rescued. But tragically, the rescue mission itself was lost, and despite the pain of losing the Chalice, it was decided that no more dwarven lives could be risked in the ruins of [[Ardith]]. Until, in the past year, rumors of its recovery surfaced, and led to [[Chardon]]. 

After telling the story and learning from [[Riswynn]] that diplomacy is not likely a good idea given what she has learned about the [[Society of the Open Scroll]], [[Travok Redpeak]] says he will return to [[Tharn Todor]] with news, and that if [[Riswynn]] finds any information in [[Chardon]] to contact him with her magic. He then takes [[Seeker]] and [[Riswynn]] to the Redpeak clan’s estates, where they meet [[Torgga Redpeak]], the matriarch of the family, and [[Vondal Redpeak]], a mason who is fascinated with the history of [[Darba]]’s stonework. While [[Riswynn]] turns in for the evening, [[Seeker]] makes plans with [[Vondal Redpeak]] for a tour the next day then heads to the docks to meet the rest of the party. 

Meanwhile, [[Kenzo]], [[Delwath]] and [[Johar]] reach the docks, and look around for a ship heading for [[Nayahar]], while [[Wellby]] heads for [[The Green Leaf]], the local halfling inn on the docks, to investigate halfling ships leaving in the next few days. [[Kenzo]] finds a Dunmari ship leaving this evening, on the tide, and heading south, and after some negotiation gets [[Johar]] a berth. After saying goodbyes and wishing him well with his mission, [[Wellby]], [[Delwath]], and [[Kenzo]] meet with [[Harol Silversong]], the captain of the [[Emerald Song]] heading for [[Chardon]], to arrange passage for the next day. 

The next morning, the party splits up to sell treasure, sell the horses, and talk to a few people in town before leaving. [[Kenzo]] takes the horses to the animal yards and gets a good price for them; [[Riswynn]] speaks with [[Finellen Silverstone]], the dwarven antiquities dealer in town; [[Seeker]] gets his tour of the masonry of [[Darba]] from [[Vondal Redpeak]]; [[Wellby]] stays with the halflings; and [[Delwath]] sells treasure around town. In the course of doing so, [[Delwath]] hears rumors from [[Albus]], a Chardonian bookseller, that [[Servius]] was trying to hire mercenaries to explore an pre-Drankorian temple, or perhaps a palace, in the mountains, rumored to be the site of worship to an ancient stone god. Rumor has it that many ancient treasures are hidden there, but no one has returned - whether because they are all turned to stone, as some say, or because they all find fabulous wealth and leave for another life, no one can agree upon. [[Delwath]] also learns that [[Servius]] headed to [[Illoria]], where there are rumors of treasure taken from [[Darba]] during the Illorian occupation in the [[Blood Years]]. 

We end as the party boards the [[Emerald Song]] heading for [[Chardon]], leaving the rumors of the palace or temple in the mountains and the rumors of treasure in [[Illoria]] to explore another day.