# Session 76
*in which the party returns to [[Tollen]] for [[Pyravela]]*

**In the real world:** Aug 9, 2023
**In Taelgar:**  Dec 25th - Dec 30th, 1748
## Summary

## Notes and Information

Start: mid-morning, Dec 25th
End: afternoon, Dec 30th
#### [[Eudomes' Mirror]]
 - 23 Dec 1748: Use [[Eudomes' Mirror]] on Urgall's helm: [[Urgall's Helm Vision]]
 - 30 Dec 1748: Use [[Eudomes' Mirror]] on Urgall's note: [[Urgall's Note Vision]]
 - *6 Jan 1749: [[Eudomes' Mirror]] is available again*
## Timeline 
- 25 Dec 1748: Destroy the scepter at first light. Emerge, meet Skaer coming to investigate the clearing of the mists. Speak with Skaer, depart for [[Tollen]].
- 26 Dec 1748: Travel towards [[Tollen]]
- 27 Dec 1748: Travel towards [[Tollen]]
- 28 Dec 1748: Arrive in [[Tollen]] late afternoon; split up for various errands
- 29 Dec 1748: First day of [[Pyravela]]; attend parade; Insinguese party on [[Scrollwright Street]] hosted by [[Guy Marchand]]; student party at the university
- 30 Dec 1748: Work on party preparations; speak with [[Umli]] 
## Narrative

We begin as the party has been traveling for three days, across the [[western Green Sea]] and the interior forests of [[Vostok]], and is approaching [[Tollen]]. During this time, [[Delwath]] has been scrying, and messages have come in:

*In [[Xurkhaz]], [[Grash]]'s undead armies have been besieging the city of Uzgukar for 10 days now. But, you hear from [[Riswynn]] of the glorious first day, before [[Grash]] realized what was in store, when hundreds upon hundreds of zombies burned in the holy fire of the [[Bahrazel]]. Unfortunately, [[Grash]] learned his lesson, and retreated, settling in for a long siege. A few days ago siege weapons appeared on the horizon, and while no undead army can enter the city, the bombardment over the past two days has done considerable damage to the walls and the Hall of Ancestors in the center of Uzgukar. This morning, [[Murook]] and [[Riswynn]] led a sortie, aided by a deva messenger of the [[Bahrazel]], called forth by [[Riswynn]], and burned a dozen catapults. It will take time for [[Grash]] to rebuild, and for now the city is quiet, although [[Grash]] does not seem inclined to leave while [[Lubash]] remains hidden inside the palace.

*On the plains of [[Dunmar]], the Battle of [[Tokra]] was fought on Dec 14th. [[Sura]] and her forces defeated the Chardonian battle mages, along with the remnant of [[Nayan Karnas|Karnas']] army, although she suffered heavy casualties. Now, [[Havdar]] rides fast for [[Songara]] to fortify the border with [[Chardon]] against reprisals that are likely to come, while [[Sura]] rides south under banners of truce, to make her winter camp and protect the southern border of her new kingdom. Meanwhile, [[Nayan Karnas]] marches north, bringing with him [[Johar]] as a hostage, and spreading news that [[Sura]] is the servant of an evil hag. A few days ago, on Dec 21st, [[Sura]] sent a message wishing you the blessings of [[Sonkar]] on the [[Day of Atonement]], and now with the holy month beginning, there will be between Dunmari until the festival of the sun on Jan 22nd, when the sun begins its northward journey. 

*In [[Chardon]], [[Fausto]]'s tower remains a blank wall, impossible to perceive via scrying. But [[Fausto]] himself does travel, and yesterday afternoon [[Delwath]] spotted him, wandering the slums north of the [[Chasa]], apparently looking for something, or someone. You see him again, later, leading a pair of seemingly sickly and drunken men, their arms scarred with purple lines, towards his tower. The next few days, he seems to spend holed up in his tower. With some careful scrying, you manage to get a few glimpses of the exterior: he seems to be receiving visitors, including several people you don't recognize entering with servants carrying chests, and leaving alone and empty handed. But what might be happening in the tower, you cannot tell.* 

Arriving in [[Tollen]], the party receive letters from various contacts from a [[Halflings|halfling]] messenger sent by [[Wendel Quickstep]] from [[The Windward Sail]], and split up to handle errands. [[Kenzo]] speaks with [[Cecilia Lister]], from whom he learns about the [[Dyer's Guild]] [[Pyravela]] party, and also hears that [[Jane Chapman]] is a good person to speak to about [[Ursk]]. [[Kenzo]] also meets with [[Escobar Garavito|Escobar]] at the university, who tells him that [[Thomas Hawke]] is the person to meet; he'll be at the university party tomorrow. [[Wellby]] tells the story of the destruction of the scepter at various [[Halflings|halfling]] inns, spreading the word and building its tale into the song of this year. [[Seeker]] works on mechanical devices, with mixed success, building a pinball machine that is quite fiddly to actually load balls into. And [[Delwath]] spreads the word about the party, with mixed success. Between [[Kenzo]] and [[Delwath]], it is clear that the word is out, but many people are a bit surprised that an [[Elves]] and a Dunmari are hosting a [[Pyravela]] party, given the holiday's association with [[Mos Numena]] and [[The Wyrdling]].

The next day, the party attends the [[Pyravela]] parade, full of floats depicting miracles of [[The Wyrdling]], and led by a procession of the elders of the [[Ancient and Honorable Guild of Philosophers]], said to be the oldest guild in the city, dating to before [[The Downfall]] of [[Hkar]]. Also watching the parade is a centaur, [[Aurelia]]; [[Delwath]] and [[Kenzo]] speak with her briefly, learning she has lived here for 20 years, turning away from the migratory habits of most of her people to really get to know one place. 

After the parade, the party heads to [[Scrollwright Street]], finding the Insiguese party hosted by [[Guy Marchand]] spilling out into the street. Everyone is wearing floral colors, feather masks, and dancing in a big circle around a fire, to the melodies of an accordion. A huge spread of food -- long, snake-like pastries, tomato jam,  cheese, and lots of mulled wine -- is set up next to the band, and everyone seems to be having a great time. Guy eventually waves [[Sarah de Gray]] over, who is a young girl of maybe 16, and who seems to be having a great time at the party. [[Wellby]] begins talking about the acidic ooze infesting Insigue, which doesn't go over so well in the party atmosphere, and then eventually asks about [[Ursk]]. Sarah doesn't seem to know much, but introduces [[Wellby]] to [[Hugo Dupont]], a professor at the university.

Hugo is an older man, not in the best shape, but still clearly enjoying the party and dancing as best he can. He is interested in [[Wellby]]'s news about the acidic ooze occupying [[Isingue]], and says he will write to people he knows in the south, but also asks [[Wellby]] if he would visit the [[Refounded Alliance of Aurbez]]. He is a scholar of comparative divinity and practical theology, and while he doesn't have much news of [[Ursk]], he does report that there are curiously no records of the form the gods take in that land. 

Later that day, the party leaves the Insinguer street party and makes their way along [[Scrollwright Street]] to [[Magnus Street]], the university district. It is much more of a carnival atmosphere: one of the main courtyards is lit up with magic, people are playing dice games and other games of chance, and the vibe is noisy and raucous. Drifting through the party, the party finds [[Thomas Hawke]], elegantly dressed and handsome. He is speaking at a packed inner courtyard full of his fans, reciting a monologue from one of his plays. It is the story of a sailor, shipwrecking, bemoaning the poor choices in his life, praying to [[The Wyrdling]] for another chance to make things right. After the recitation is done, the party talks to Thomas, who is a playwright and a collector of stories. Although he has little to say about [[Ursk]], he agrees to an exchange of stories. [[Wellby]] tells the story of [[Arryn]] the Wanderer and the mirror dimension, as Thomas records with a magic quill, changing [[Wellby]]'s name. In exchange, Thomas tells a story about magical [[Jade]], the inspiration for [[Luminastra's Gift]], the play his monologue was from, a story of Luminastra, a magic whale, and Geoffrey the Sailor, shipwrecked, rescued, and taken to a magical world below the ocean. This, Thomas says, was inspired by a real tale, a story from the oceans west of [[Chardon]], where a garden of magical [[Jade]] grows beneath the ocean, tended to by [[Merfolk]], who would grow names in their garden. 

The next morning, the party spends time in preparation for hosting a [[Pyravela]] feast on [[Vindristjarna]], and then heads to [[The Fire and Stone]] to meet [[Umli]] in the afternoon. She is excited by [[Delwath]]'s shadow metal, which she says is called *[[Inkaye]]* (in-ka-yay) by her people. It is a metal that can absorb and repurpose extraplanar energy. She can shape it into something new, if desired, and also make weapons or armor with the [[Skaer steel]] the party brought back. The session ends as the party leaves [[The Fire and Stone]], to handle last minute preparations for their feast before heading to the [[Dyer's Guild]] party.  
