#### Session 44

**(Thursday, April 14th, 2022; in Taelgar, July 23rd)

We begin as the party faces off against [[Kadmos]] and his companions, with [[Delwath]], [[Wellby]], and [[Riswynn]] charmed by [[Kadmos]]’ magic. [[Kenzo]], enraged by [[Kadmos]]’ actions, rushes forward, avoiding [[Seeker]]’s attempt to defuse the situation by turning him into a bunny rabbit, but running straight into [[Hektor]]’s halberd before he can launch a flurry of blows at [[Kadmos]]. Despite the slashing attack from [[Hektor]], [[Kenzo]]’s staff and fists land true and he nearly knocks [[Kadmos]] unconscious. Unfortunately, though, [[Hektor]] returns the favor, and [[Kenzo]] is taken down by two quick blows with the halberd.

At this point, both [[Antonia]] and [[Riswynn]] reach over to heal [[Kenzo]], and the violence calms for a moment as the encounter turns to conversation. [[Delwath]] offers to show [[Kadmos]] the [[Ring of Displacement|ring]] from [[Drankor]] he has, and is concerned about [[Kenzo]], as [[Delwath]] is still under the influence of a charm. While the conversation continues, [[Kenzo]] quietly reaches out to [[Wellby]]’s essence and, after a few attempts, breaks the charm that has a hold on him. 

Over time as [[Kenzo]] and [[Wellby]] press the conversation, it slowly becomes clear to everyone that something is up. [[Kadmos]] speculates that the [[Things/Artifacts of Power/Scepter of Command]] may be exerting its influence, although no one lets on that the party is carrying the scepter. [[Antonia]] and [[Wellby]] attempt to make a deal for a map to [[Agata]]’s lair and the [[Ever Spinning Top]], but it doesn’t quite connect. Eventually, the charm wears off, and the Chardonians retreat to a protected magical sphere created by [[Casian]] to rest, while the party leaves towards the wyvern’s lair.

On the road to the abandoned mining town of [[Vandar]], the party finds the ruins of the caravan that left down this road some days ago, carrying silk and paper – much of the silk is salvageable but the paper has been badly damaged by the rain. Upon arriving at the town of [[Vandar]], they find it largely ruined, with an obvious wyvern’s lair in the middle of the town square, and an oozing poisonous swamp with a sleeping ogre of some kind at the base of the hill. The temple is still partially intact, and that is where they set a camp.

That evening, after midnight, a group of the Chardonians attempts to stealthily steal some magic items from the party. However, they are detected, and a battle ensues. [[Marcella]], the main thief, is quickly knocked unconscious and left for dead (“left for chance to decide her fate,” says [[Wellby]]). [[Casian]] and [[Kadmos]] launch an attack, and the battle turns into a vicious exchange of magic. [[Casian]] kills all seven bandits with a fireball, and eventually [[Delwath]] is worn down by a ghost summoned by [[Kadmos]]. 

As everyone approaches the end of their resources and health, and the battle threatens to leave one or more people on both sides dead, [[Marcella]] approaches from down the path, battered but miraculously and luckily recovered. She implores everyone to stop fighting, and [[Kadmos]], badly wounded and nearing death, does not argue. While the conversation is bitter, the parties eventually agree that [[Kadmos]] will take the [[Ever Spinning Top]], and [[Casian]] will pay a wereguild of 25 gold per bandit killed, a total of 175 gp, but [[Marcella]]’s weapons and ring of haste will be returned to her. 

While these negotiations are happening, [[Wellby]] and [[Marcella]] grab a private moment out of sight behind the Wall of Fire summoned by [[Casian]]. After a whispered conversation, [[Marcella]] turns disdainfully away and looks back at [[Wellby]] with anger. But [[Wellby]] has a thoughtful look on his face.