
[12/7/2023 10:02 PM] rsulfuratus
so, I wrote this kind of on a whim when I wanted to do something different for one of my intros (around the Empty Moon / werewolf arc) and I haven't quite figured out what it means yet


[12/7/2023 10:02 PM] rsulfuratus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1182517571925327892/image.png?ex=678bc28f&is=678a710f&hm=ad4e6e138d381b00491efb082a84aa79c72a63bc4f447966d3b7e2d518c146e4&


[12/7/2023 10:04 PM] rsulfuratus
what is key is the idea of extraplanar tides


[12/7/2023 10:04 PM] rsulfuratus
this is also now canonically part of elven lore, albeit on a different time scale


[12/7/2023 10:05 PM] .deciusmus
yeah, my sorceror gets a different bonus spell in the new vs full moon


[12/7/2023 10:05 PM] rsulfuratus
what i am not sure is if the moon is responsible for extraplanar tides on taelgar, does it really make sense for it to actually exist on other planes?


[12/7/2023 10:05 PM] .deciusmus
on the theory that during the full moon its divine/outer planes, during new moon it is fey/inner planes


[12/7/2023 10:06 PM] rsulfuratus
right that makes sense and is consistent with lore


[12/7/2023 10:06 PM] .deciusmus
right, you are wondering about this line: " rising bright rising moon. "


[12/7/2023 10:06 PM] .deciusmus
I forgot i wrote that


[12/7/2023 10:06 PM] rsulfuratus
yes


[12/7/2023 10:07 PM] .deciusmus
stars probably work better actually


[12/7/2023 10:07 PM] .deciusmus
I didn't want Twilight's Grace to feel gloomy


[12/7/2023 10:07 PM] .deciusmus
so that moon line was just throwaway


[12/7/2023 10:08 PM] .deciusmus
happy to change that


[12/7/2023 10:08 PM] rsulfuratus
it is kind of an important decision that seems like it is hard to go back on so want a bit of time to puzzle it out


[12/7/2023 10:09 PM] .deciusmus
yeah, sure


[12/7/2023 10:09 PM] rsulfuratus
agree twilight's grace shouldn't feel gloomy


[12/7/2023 10:10 PM] rsulfuratus
but also light could work differently in the feywild. no need for a visible source of moonlight to have moonlight


[12/7/2023 10:10 PM] .deciusmus
sure


[12/7/2023 10:10 PM] .deciusmus
I could also imagine a faint glow on the horizon and a spray of stars, like the milky way above


[12/7/2023 10:12 PM] rsulfuratus
anyway i deleted namecheck but will leave status/tim to remind me to think about it a bit.


[12/7/2023 10:12 PM] rsulfuratus
I kind of like the faint glow on the horizon and a spray of stars imagery


[12/7/2023 10:13 PM] .deciusmus
I rewrote it like:


The realm of [[Archfey Ethlenn]]. A land of perpetual twilight, but full of sparkling lights, music, and games.

%% 

Note: Could potentially have a moonlight connection, but unclear if there is a moon in the Feywild. For now avoid reference/mention of moon until this is determined.

%%

{Reactions}
üëç



[9/23/2024 6:40 PM] .deciusmus
have you considered at all why werewolves turn during the full moon?


[9/23/2024 6:41 PM] .deciusmus
is it just that pandemonium is closer to taelgar? something else? just pondering in relationship to my PC who is dedicated to the moon


[9/23/2024 7:04 PM] rsulfuratus
I wrote this as an intro during the werewolf arc but nothing beyond the implications here:

The world turns, night falls, and the stars begin to flicker in the sky over Dunmar. As the Fox and Hunter drift above the horizon, they watch the full moon rising for the 2,514th time, and listen. Their attention, as always, is drawn to the east, and north, where the prayers are the brightest and loudest, the hopes for safety, for healing, for peace that echo across the borderlands. They reach out, as they do every night, granting what minor miracles they can to the rangers who keep Sembara safe from the darkness of the Plague Lands.

The work is easy tonight. As the moon turns to full the tidal pull of the Divine Presence grows stronger, filling the land, and the Source is easy to reach. The Fox thinks of days running in the forests of the north, and stretches across the world. The Hunter calls to him, reminds him of the task ahead, but remembers the joy of those early days too, the thrill and power of just running in the deep forests where he met the Fox.

Their attention, though, does not stay on the forested Mostreve hills on the southern reaches of Sembara, nor the arid foothills where the people of the Refounded Alliance of Aurbez scratch out a living on the edge of the Plague Lands. The full moon also draws the darkness of the Void closer. The Hunter, always with one small part of his essence watching those who carry echoes of his companions of old, sees the madness pour into the soul of a poor innocent boy, a young dwarf not even of age, in west of Dunmar.

(cont)


[9/23/2024 7:04 PM] rsulfuratus
While the Fox tends to the prayers of the rangers of Sembara, the Hunter watches Dunmar more closely for a moment. Across the desert and dry arid plains -- so hard not to cast the land in his mind's eye as it was -- the People of the Horse are moving. Sura, the sister of the current Samraat, has returned from an unreachable prison, and many people are gathering in her camps. And yet she is not marching to war, not yet.

North of the city of Tokra, an old woman sits by the fire, wondering. The Hunter watches her a moment, sees the prayers streaming to Bhishma, asking when the strange travelers of her dreams will arrive, and how much should she tell them when they do? He senses the tangled future, but there is little he can do to shape that destiny.

In Tokra, the poor innocent is snarling, consumed with the madness of Jinnik on this night of power. The waves of the Void crash over him, each wave reaching higher and higher up the beach, threatening to overwhelm his soul, until suddenly there is calm, clear water and silver twilight in the forests. The Fox comes running -- is this my home? No, the Hunter says, just an echo of what was lost, but that echo still has power.

The tide madness recedes from the boy, but not from everywhere in this city. Elsewhere, the darkness of the Void is pulled tight, bound together with the souls of those who have submitted to its power. It will be harder to free these of the curse.


