[11/23/2023 2:42 PM] .deciusmus
What do you think of Aelvarsk for the highland kingdom region


[11/23/2023 2:44 PM] .deciusmus
And Elvare for ‚Äúgreater sembara‚Äù lowland regions


[11/23/2023 2:56 PM] rsulfuratus
need to let it sit for a bit


[11/23/2023 3:10 PM] .deciusmus
I‚Äôm much less sold on Elvare or even the need for a name. But I feel like the highland kingdoms area needs a name that isn‚Äôt ‚Äúthe highland kingdoms‚Äù


[11/23/2023 3:13 PM] .deciusmus
Two others from chat gpt 

Jarviskar 
Isbrek


[11/24/2023 9:08 AM] rsulfuratus
what are these names for, exactly? e.g., is this geographic region of the sentinel foothills; the cultural designation for the highland kingdom area, something else?


[11/24/2023 9:08 AM] rsulfuratus
taking a page from Scotland, it could make sense to just have: "Sembaran Highlands" and "Sembaran Lowlands"


[11/24/2023 9:20 AM] .deciusmus
The general region of the highland kingdoms. I don‚Äôt think they would call themselves ‚Äúsembaran highlands‚Äù though


[11/24/2023 9:24 AM] rsulfuratus
I guess I don't have a good sense of whether this would be a coherent region as seen from within. like, would someone from Breva think of themselves as a person from Breva and from Jarviskar or whatever?


[11/24/2023 9:25 AM] rsulfuratus
the drankorians definitely would have called them "the Sembaran highlands"


[11/24/2023 9:25 AM] rsulfuratus
of course one complication with that is there is already a highlands region of sembara


[11/24/2023 9:30 AM] .deciusmus
Basically I think originally we called this area ‚ÄúGreater Sembara‚Äù and then we had ‚Äúhighland kingdoms‚Äù and ‚ÄúTyrwingha‚Äù and such as subparts of ‚ÄúGreater Sembara‚Äù


[11/24/2023 9:31 AM] .deciusmus
But as I‚Äôve developed the history I‚Äôm not happy with that naming


[11/24/2023 9:33 AM] .deciusmus
In particular I don‚Äôt think the ‚Äúhighland kingdoms‚Äù would ever consider themselves part of ‚ÄúSembara‚Äù


[11/24/2023 9:33 AM] .deciusmus
They have a long and independent history and were only ruled from Sembara for ~100 years around the Great War


[11/24/2023 9:34 AM] rsulfuratus
so, I think it depends on where Sembara comes from


[11/24/2023 9:34 AM] rsulfuratus
take this scenario, for example


[11/24/2023 9:35 AM] .deciusmus
Well, I created the Duchy of Sembara and the river Semb as a source for the name of the kingdom


[11/24/2023 9:35 AM] rsulfuratus
river names often stick around for a long time, so perhaps the Drankorians came and the local people said the river was the Semb, and so in the Drankorian empire these were known as the Sembaran provinces


[11/24/2023 9:36 AM] .deciusmus
Right, the river name is probably ancient


[11/24/2023 9:36 AM] rsulfuratus
in Drankorian geography, Sembaran would refer to the entire Semb rivershed, basically everything from the Sentinels to the Green Sea, south of the Volta and north of the hills


[11/24/2023 9:37 AM] rsulfuratus
the duchy of Sembara takes its name from this


[11/24/2023 9:37 AM] rsulfuratus
the parallel is Great Britain


[11/24/2023 9:38 AM] .deciusmus
Although Great Britain is a counter example to me. Sembara = England, Tyrwingha = wales, highland kingdoms = Scotland


[11/24/2023 9:38 AM] rsulfuratus
but the island is called Great Britain


[11/24/2023 9:38 AM] rsulfuratus
which derives from latin


[11/24/2023 9:39 AM] rsulfuratus
and if the Angles hadn't moved in between the end of the roman empire and the growth of the english kingdoms, England very likely could just be Britain


[11/24/2023 9:39 AM] .deciusmus
I guess there is no reason you couldn‚Äôt have had Britain as the name of the English kingdom


[11/24/2023 9:39 AM] rsulfuratus
since England = land of the Angles and Britain = land of the britons


[11/24/2023 9:40 AM] rsulfuratus
which isn't to say that a name for "Scotland" = highland kingdoms isn't worth having


[11/24/2023 9:41 AM] rsulfuratus
but probably it should be "land of the X"


[11/24/2023 9:42 AM] rsulfuratus
not sure have a name for the people who live there


[11/24/2023 9:42 AM] rsulfuratus
it is actually probably useful to develop names for all the various subcultures since that makes naming regions a lot easier, since some many  names in the real world are just "land of the X"


[11/24/2023 9:43 AM] rsulfuratus
this is what I was trying to do with Vostok and Skaehem (which are land of the Vos and land of the Skaer)


[11/24/2023 9:48 AM] .deciusmus
You‚Äôve slightly convinced me though that Sembara is actually the appropriate name. 

The derivation would be:
Drankorians appear and are told basically ‚Äúwe are the people of the Semb river valley, ie the Sembarans‚Äù (at the time the drankorians arrived the highland/lowland distinction was fairly minimal)

They don‚Äôt conquer the highlands, but the provinces are called Sembaran provinces (ala ‚ÄúGaulish or British provinces‚Äù)

The highlanders themselves continue to refer to themselves as ‚Äúsembaran‚Äú or ‚Äúfree sembarans‚Äù or ‚Äúhighland sembarans‚Äù

And today there is just the Sembaran lowlands and the Sembaran highlands


[11/24/2023 9:49 AM] .deciusmus
On the other hand, it probably is pretty reasonable for the sembaran highlanders to have developed a new name for themselves, or linguistic change to have happened differently, etc


[11/24/2023 9:50 AM] .deciusmus
Today (1720/1750) it seems to me the four highland kingdoms would have much more in common with each other than with sembara


[11/24/2023 9:54 AM] .deciusmus
All *that* said, for worldbuilding/in game reference purposes, it seems nicer to have a word for the highland kingdoms as I find it unsatisifying to refer to the language as "highlander" and so on. And there is an actual region of the kingdom of Sembara that is called the Sembaran Highlands as well. In the real world things end up with confusing names all the time, but I'd prefer to not have this particular situation be confusing


[11/24/2023 9:55 AM] rsulfuratus
right


[11/24/2023 9:55 AM] .deciusmus
So if we can come up with a good name for the "land where the people of Lavnoch, Breva, Ardlas, and Zovcka live" it probably makes sense


[11/24/2023 9:55 AM] rsulfuratus
i think a name for the people is most useful


[11/24/2023 9:55 AM] rsulfuratus
then you'd just have X-land


[11/24/2023 9:55 AM] rsulfuratus
and also a name for the language


[11/24/2023 9:55 AM] .deciusmus
Yeah, agreed



[12/8/2023 3:08 PM] rsulfuratus
I've been thinking about endorheic basins a lot. a little less than 20% of earths surface is endorheic, and they tend to require desert-like conditions to persist


[12/8/2023 3:09 PM] rsulfuratus
because otherwise the water just cuts through the barrier eventually


[12/8/2023 3:09 PM] rsulfuratus
so e.g. the mahar is probably not a great place, there is too much water flowing through it


[12/8/2023 3:09 PM] rsulfuratus
but there is also likely a large endorheic basin in the great desert area


[12/8/2023 3:09 PM] .deciusmus
should have figured you would have read the wikipedia page already given your previously stated river basin obesssion


[12/8/2023 3:10 PM] rsulfuratus
equivalent to chad basin in north africa


[12/8/2023 3:10 PM] rsulfuratus
the thing taelgar really lacks is something like the giant himalayas / caspian sea basin


[12/8/2023 3:11 PM] .deciusmus
yeah. the sentinals are fascinating because they have no large plateau around them. I don't think there is a good analoge on earth except maybe parts of the andes


[12/8/2023 3:11 PM] .deciusmus
but they really just kinda push up from nowhere. clear evidence of no plate tectonics


[12/8/2023 3:11 PM] .deciusmus
üôÇ


[12/8/2023 3:12 PM] rsulfuratus
they are kind of rockies-inspired imo


[12/8/2023 3:12 PM] .deciusmus
yeah but the rockies have 1000 miles of high plateau behind them


[12/8/2023 3:12 PM] .deciusmus
maybe not quite 1000, but a lot


[12/8/2023 3:15 PM] .deciusmus
I tend to think of the Sembaran rivers as somewhat analogous to the India/Ganges river valley


[12/8/2023 3:16 PM] .deciusmus
you have this wall-like set of mountains that arises out of almost flat land


[12/8/2023 3:16 PM] rsulfuratus
really? then why are they called the highland kingdoms?


[12/8/2023 3:17 PM] .deciusmus
they are like "lowland" nepal or bhutan or the highland indian provinces


[12/8/2023 3:17 PM] .deciusmus
but they are pretty small


[12/8/2023 3:18 PM] .deciusmus
maybe that's wrong, I haven't thought about it super-carefully


[12/8/2023 3:19 PM] rsulfuratus
To me the Sembara river systems imply a pretty rugged hilly uplands


[12/8/2023 3:19 PM] rsulfuratus
you need spines of high terrain separting the river valleys


[12/8/2023 3:19 PM] rsulfuratus
otherwise you'd end up with Dunmar with just the Hara in the middle


[12/8/2023 3:20 PM] rsulfuratus
doesn't have to be mountains but Sembara does not seem like a flat plain to me


[12/8/2023 3:22 PM] .deciusmus
what keeps the seine/loire/rhein/elbe as separate rivers?


[12/8/2023 3:23 PM] rsulfuratus
hah that is just the map I was looking at


[12/8/2023 3:25 PM] rsulfuratus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1182780106079473786/france-physical-map-free-WORLD-MAPS-1024x955.png?ex=678b6590&is=678a1410&hm=c0e2d9121607f965979e77bf50e71f54561e5696d472936dd36f5dec867e4d6d&


[12/8/2023 4:22 PM] .deciusmus
I'm not sure what you have planned in the north, but it probably makes more sense to split the "Northern Green Sea" from the "Far North"


[12/8/2023 4:23 PM] .deciusmus
Boundary would be a bit fuzzy but it would distinguish the stuff north west of Vostok and especially on the western side of the Sentinels from Ursk and the mountains north of Urks


[12/8/2023 4:41 PM] rsulfuratus
yes, I think that makes sense


[12/8/2023 4:42 PM] rsulfuratus
Far North might not quite be the right title but the north coast of the green sea (extending from "Kenku Homeland" east to "Far North Peninsula") is definitely distinct from Pandar/Forest of Nightmares area


[12/8/2023 4:47 PM] .deciusmus
Realistically, there are probably 3 regions up there, the "northern green sea", the "far north" (which is basically polar/artcic regions), and the "north coast" or "north west" which includes forest of nightmares/pandar and the farther north coast


[12/8/2023 6:11 PM] .deciusmus
I pushed some stuff to  a branch, geoupdates


[12/8/2023 6:11 PM] .deciusmus
not sure how I feel about it


[12/8/2023 6:22 PM] rsulfuratus
a few things are misclassified but I basically like it. I was about to do something similar. my one major modification would be to keep things that are unmapped* in tentative


[12/8/2023 6:23 PM] rsulfuratus
by unmapped I mean things like "far north peninsula" or "north bay"


[12/8/2023 6:23 PM] rsulfuratus
features that exist basically as coastline


[12/8/2023 6:24 PM] rsulfuratus
i would also keep the southern continent and related in either brainstorming or tentative


[12/8/2023 6:25 PM] rsulfuratus
the only unmapped feature I'd include in the main gazetteer is the ~great desert~


[12/8/2023 6:29 PM] .deciusmus
Feel free to take over my branch or merge it and go from their


[12/8/2023 6:30 PM] .deciusmus
I thought the ‚Äúthere were two continents during hkar age‚Äù was canonical


[12/8/2023 6:30 PM] rsulfuratus
either there were two continents or there was one continent that was split in two during the downfall


[12/8/2023 6:30 PM] rsulfuratus
not sure yet


[12/8/2023 6:32 PM] .deciusmus
Ah. Makes sense


[12/8/2023 6:46 PM] rsulfuratus
I am generally aiming to set river whereabouts to the watershed they are part of (although technically "partOf" is probably better here, but since that is all up the air not switching over yet). the aim being to make it easy to query a set of connected rivers. not sure how far I'll get tonight

{Reactions}
üëç

[12/8/2023 8:55 PM] .deciusmus
What do you think about Zimka for the name of the highlanders? Zimkovia becomes the land


[12/8/2023 8:57 PM] rsulfuratus
Tentative üëç


[12/8/2023 8:58 PM] .deciusmus
alternate ideas:  Vemkya and Vemkysk


[12/8/2023 8:58 PM] .deciusmus
vem-ky-sk


[12/8/2023 8:59 PM] .deciusmus
or Vemkinsky


[12/8/2023 8:59 PM] .deciusmus
don't like that as much


[12/8/2023 9:00 PM] .deciusmus
Zimka is intended to be evolved from Semb


[12/8/2023 9:05 PM] .deciusmus
very explicitly same root as Vostok could be 
Pemvos (the people of the Semb) Pemvora
also could use Kemvos Semvos Kambvos


[12/8/2023 9:06 PM] .deciusmus
(Kem is already a river in Vostok so probably not that)


[12/9/2023 10:52 AM] rsulfuratus
Vostok is supposed to be "homeland of the Vos", so people = Vos, land = tok. that gives you the ~English/Tollender translation Vosland and the variants Voslaag and Vosklad for "lowlanders" and "highlanders" which is then used synonymously with the name of the region (e.g. like Gauls/Gaul)


[12/9/2023 10:52 AM] rsulfuratus
this wikipedia page is fascinating: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_country-name_etymologies

{Embed}
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_country-name_etymologies
List of country-name etymologies
This list covers English-language country names with their etymologies. Some of these include notes on indigenous names and their etymologies. Countries in italics are endonyms or no longer exist as sovereign political entities.


[12/9/2023 10:55 AM] rsulfuratus
main reason to care is if you want to have an "indigenous" name and a "foreign" name, e.g. Skaergenland / Skaer Islands vs Skaerhem; Vosland vs Vostok


[12/9/2023 10:56 AM] rsulfuratus
E.g. Zimland as the name used by Sembarans, Zimtovia or Zimkovia as the indigenous name


[12/9/2023 10:58 AM] rsulfuratus
my general take is that is most interesting from a game/worldbuilding perspective when you have distinct cultures close together that might clash. So no one would call Dunmar Dunland or whatever so we don't care about etymology, but some future adventure might for sure be interested in the political/cultural dimensions "Sembaran" vs "East-Northerner"


[12/9/2023 11:31 AM] .deciusmus
Right, I was thinking Semvos would be "the people of the Sem"


[12/9/2023 11:31 AM] .deciusmus
Or whatever alternate, i.e. Pemvos Kambvos


[12/9/2023 11:41 AM] .deciusmus
so the "highlanders" would call themselves "Semvos" and the place Semkovia or whatever


[12/9/2023 1:05 PM] rsulfuratus
Ah right. Yes
