


[11/5/2023 8:01 PM] rsulfuratus
when does aurbez become a thing? and have you given any thought to the role of e.g. the rangers in the hobgoblin wars?


[11/5/2023 8:03 PM] .deciusmus
I have not really thought much about the rangers. I keep kind of forgetting about them


[11/5/2023 8:03 PM] .deciusmus
Although I have a few things in the Sembara notes where they show up


[11/5/2023 8:03 PM] .deciusmus
I think they suffer somewhat in the end of the Great War, a lot of them die. I really liked what we came up with the other day around them being originally Insinguen


[11/5/2023 8:03 PM] rsulfuratus
I don't think of them as really directly connected to Sembaran history


[11/5/2023 8:04 PM] .deciusmus
So I think they are mostly active in Maseau / Addermarch / Tyrwingha


[11/5/2023 8:04 PM] rsulfuratus
yes, exactly


[11/5/2023 8:04 PM] rsulfuratus
they are really more about the plaguelands than anything else


[11/5/2023 8:05 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah


[11/5/2023 8:05 PM] .deciusmus
As far as Aurbez, my Ausson's Crossing mini-series was set in 1688, and Aurbez was a not-yet-realized idea


[11/5/2023 8:05 PM] .deciusmus
But I don't know if that has to be canonical


[11/5/2023 8:07 PM] rsulfuratus
I think that is good, I think before the victories in the 3rd hobgoblin war it would have been challenging to have much settlement in aurbez


[11/5/2023 8:07 PM] rsulfuratus
some outlanders scratching out a living, that kind of thing, but not really even villages


[11/5/2023 8:07 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, I had the 1688 vibe be "very new frontier"


[11/5/2023 8:08 PM] rsulfuratus
I think people would have started moving there during the Peace of Cece, that is what marks, roughly, the "end' of the southern hobgoblin threat. (except the mad scientists)


[11/5/2023 8:10 PM] .deciusmus
Right, but that's basically 1650. I am not sure when say, the road was built


[11/5/2023 8:10 PM] .deciusmus
And it is possible also that south of Maseau was actually safer in the early 1600s


[11/5/2023 8:11 PM] .deciusmus
Than north of Maseau I mean


[11/5/2023 8:11 PM] rsulfuratus
right


[11/5/2023 8:11 PM] .deciusmus
So you could actually have the initial "population boom" (still small, but) happen in the 1590s - 1610s as people flee south from the Shattered Ice Clan


[11/5/2023 8:12 PM] rsulfuratus
not sure the details matter exactly right now, just trying to get a rough picture of what an elf who fought at the Battle of Urlich Monastery but then didn't return home for the next mela (in 1627) would have been doing if they basically hung around as a solider in the west/southern marches of sembara from 1545-1700 or so


[11/5/2023 8:14 PM] rsulfuratus
the rangers are an obvious place for a lone elf solider, but not sure exactly what they would have been doing after the bloodlust wars, the blood plague, and all the chaos of the 1550s


[11/5/2023 8:14 PM] .deciusmus
I'd say they would have ended up in Maseau and then the rangers.


[11/5/2023 8:15 PM] .deciusmus
There is a ton of stuff in the Chronicle of Sembaran histor that isn't in the timeline yet

{Reactions}
üëç

[11/5/2023 8:15 PM] rsulfuratus
maybe the rangers as beryl knew them don't really survive the blood years intact - they were invovled in dealing with the blood plague, for example


[11/5/2023 8:15 PM] rsulfuratus
a few people who remember the sacred springs of isingue or whatever keep the knowledge alive


[11/5/2023 8:16 PM] .deciusmus
Although actually the main bit that would be relevant was the magic going wrong around the 1580s


[11/5/2023 8:16 PM] .deciusmus
at the end of the doc


[11/5/2023 8:16 PM] rsulfuratus
right, that too


[11/5/2023 8:16 PM] .deciusmus
I think a core of relatively powerful rangers escaped Isingue and the plagues and death likely with Beryl's help, and established themselves in Maseau in the 1546


[11/5/2023 8:16 PM] .deciusmus
and then rebuilt the organization, which was otherwise basically gone


[11/5/2023 8:17 PM] rsulfuratus
right, I guess the key thing is the continuity of knowledge going back to isingue about the sacred waters and such


[11/5/2023 8:17 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, I think there should be something there, although it could be knowledge kept relatively secret


[11/5/2023 8:18 PM] .deciusmus
As far as your elf, the 1550s - 1602 has lots going on. I haven't written a history of Maseau, but they were a key part of the hobgoblin wars as well and were somewhat abandoned/cut off from Sembara and forced to stand on their own. Very much the kind of place that a elf might have been a key figure in


[11/5/2023 8:19 PM] .deciusmus
Then in the early 1600s Sembara makes peace with the Shattered Ice Clan. But the 2nd Hobgoblin War, I think, was one where the hobgoblins explicitly wanted Maseau as a buffer


[11/5/2023 8:19 PM] rsulfuratus
I'll look at the actual doc, I was just looking at the timeline. I know we shifted some dates around for the timeline but should be easy to recalibrate


[11/5/2023 8:20 PM] .deciusmus
the more interested bit is after 1650


[11/5/2023 8:20 PM] .deciusmus
I think by 1650, Maseau is pretty peaceful. The border has moved south and west


[11/5/2023 8:21 PM] .deciusmus
But the stretch of lands between Maseau and Cleenseau is still relatively wild, and a solo elf might have gotten into various adventures there. Or they could have gone south towards Aurbez, which I think is where a lot of the rangers started going. The Ardonne river is choked with ash. Why? Etc.


[11/5/2023 8:21 PM] .deciusmus
Adderfell is also a good possibility, in the post 1650 period


[11/5/2023 8:22 PM] .deciusmus
The timeline in Chronicle doc is not aligned with the timeline in Timeline btw


[11/5/2023 8:28 PM] rsulfuratus
wasn't beryl a pretty good painter?


[11/5/2023 8:28 PM] rsulfuratus
next sesion is going to kind of be the Mike show


[11/5/2023 8:35 PM] .deciusmus
yes, he was


[11/5/2023 8:35 PM] rsulfuratus
you might have to describe one of his paintings next session fyi


[11/5/2023 8:36 PM] .deciusmus
ok üôÇ