
[9/1/2024 5:09 PM] .deciusmus
I have a few people from addermarch but haven’t developed it much. Figured it was somewhat more influenced by Tyrwingha than other places and the Darkwood is connected to Duskmire in some way


[9/1/2024 5:32 PM] rsulfuratus
basically trying to work out a rough history. my recollection from the Duskmire history is that the Darkwood goes way back. there is a note suggesting that Umbraeth was exiled in the DR 600s, but not sure if that is strictly canonical


[9/1/2024 5:33 PM] rsulfuratus
but assuming that Darkwood is a dangerous place during the Drankorian expansion (timing is not perfect, but relatively close), Addermarch is probably a pretty marginal backwater during the Drankorian era


[9/1/2024 5:34 PM] rsulfuratus
I'm imagining the geography/climate as kind of mid-Atlantic Applachians. Addermarch itself is pretty hilly with difficult overland travel, except along the (few) navigable rivers / river valleys


[9/1/2024 5:35 PM] rsulfuratus
so my basic history is that:
- pre-Drankor, Addermarch is settled by Tyrwinghans, but is always fairly marginal
- Drankor, it is a province of Drankor, but not a particularly important one. but crucially outside the deal with Ethlenn so more directly assimilated


[9/1/2024 5:36 PM] rsulfuratus
have some forestry, and the Aure is navigable as far as Addermarch, so not a total economic dead zone. but not rich by any means.


[9/1/2024 5:39 PM] rsulfuratus
in the Timeline of Sembaran history, Addermarch is noted to be established as the Earldom of Adderfell (presumably being called an Earldom due to cultural and historical connections to Tyrwingha) in lands formerly controlled by Avatus


[9/1/2024 5:42 PM] rsulfuratus
here it seems like there are two possibilities, based on the geography that has Addermarch as kind of a pocket surrounded by hills on three sides (west, south, east):
- one option would be that this was an area that suffered from hobgoblin and other raids for a long time after the major defeats of Avataus, basically a backwater where many of the hobgoblins, etc, in Avatus army fled
- a different option would be actually this was never conquered, but was cut of from Sembara by Avatus, and so during the post plague years it was really functionally a part of Tyrwingha


[9/1/2024 5:43 PM] rsulfuratus
in either case, it becomes part of the Sembaran crown during Derik I's rule, after the defeat of Avatus


[9/1/2024 5:45 PM] .deciusmus
I’m not convinced that Atavus stuff has to be canonical


[9/1/2024 5:46 PM] .deciusmus
I’ve imagined the western and northern borders of addermarch to be pretty rough terrain


[9/1/2024 5:46 PM] .deciusmus
So it seems plausible it was never conquered and has an older history


[9/1/2024 5:47 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, basic idea is that the western edge of the mostreve hills is a very rough, with a steep escarpment particularly on the west that borders the Gap of Maseau


[9/1/2024 5:47 PM] rsulfuratus
less rough to the northeast where the Aure flows towards the Enst, of course, and less rough towards Tyrwingha


[9/1/2024 5:48 PM] .deciusmus
The Tyrwinghan part of the mostreve hills I’ve established as much denser in fey than elsewhere and not very settled but where settled very traditional


[9/1/2024 5:48 PM] rsulfuratus
that makes sense


[9/1/2024 5:49 PM] rsulfuratus
potentially Ethlenn's domain might extend southeast towards Orenlas, putting the Tyrwinghan Mostreve hills at the center


[9/1/2024 5:49 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah maybe


[9/1/2024 5:50 PM] .deciusmus
I think the settlement of addermarch was probably originally a bit complex - tyrwinghans but also clearly leaving Ethelenns domain


[9/1/2024 5:51 PM] rsulfuratus
right. it has many cultural similarities to Tyrwingha but doesn't have the same fey connection which has a big impact


[9/1/2024 5:51 PM] rsulfuratus
potentially in part settled by Tyrwinghans who *didn't* want to be part of Ethlenn's bargain


[9/1/2024 5:51 PM] .deciusmus
It might have originally been something of a frontier perhaps even a place of exile / banishment from Tyrwingha. Somewhat dangerous and with fey in the Darkwood on the southern border


[9/1/2024 5:51 PM] .deciusmus
Right the rejection of the bargain could work as well


[9/1/2024 5:52 PM] rsulfuratus
post-Drankor, my image of the vibe is kind of like the Dendarii Mountains in the Miles books, although without the implication of technological backwardness and the kind of dumb hill people stereotypes


[9/1/2024 5:53 PM] rsulfuratus
but a rough place that was the center of guerilla fighting during several post-Drankor, pre-Great War wars (e.g., Avatus), but never conquered and proud of it


[9/1/2024 5:53 PM] rsulfuratus
then, the same thing repeats during the hobgoblin wars. it is never conquered, but especially during the 3rd hobgoblin war it is completely isolated from Sembara


[9/1/2024 5:53 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah I like that


[9/1/2024 5:53 PM] .deciusmus
Right


[9/1/2024 5:54 PM] .deciusmus
Honestly there isn’t really any reason it ever has to have been part of sembara


[9/1/2024 5:55 PM] .deciusmus
It might work better if it was simply always an independent frontier type place


[9/1/2024 5:55 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah that's true


[9/1/2024 5:56 PM] .deciusmus
A backwater Drankorian province in the hills that was mostly known for the Darkwood in the south


[9/1/2024 5:57 PM] .deciusmus
Avatus never conquerors it but probes and maybe does some damage/marches through


[9/1/2024 5:57 PM] .deciusmus
But during the Avatus-Great War period is closely aligned with sembara and there are lots of back and forth


[9/1/2024 5:58 PM] .deciusmus
Then during the more recent hobgoblin wars it becomes more isolated again


[9/1/2024 5:58 PM] rsulfuratus
right, I think that makes sense. it might have a similar history to e.g. Vostok, in that during the height of the power of the Deriks the earl of adderfell swears personal fealty to Derik (as an underking type thing)


[9/1/2024 5:59 PM] rsulfuratus
but then post Great War it quickly departs the Sembaran orbit


[9/1/2024 5:59 PM] .deciusmus
And in the last 150 years has developed kinda independently with a bit of a “these are our hills “ vibe


[9/1/2024 6:00 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, especially until the final defeat of the hobgoblins in the 1650s it was repeatedly isolated from Sembara. and then even again e.g. during the undead crisis in your current campaign it would be the natural response of the people of Addermarch to retreat to the hills


[9/1/2024 6:01 PM] rsulfuratus
Adderfellians? Adderfelsh? hard to come up with a demonym


[9/1/2024 6:02 PM] .deciusmus
Adderians ? Adderese


[9/1/2024 6:06 PM] rsulfuratus
hmm. lots of ideas here, but not sold on anything yet. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demonym

{Embed}
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demonym
Demonym
A demonym (; from Ancient Greek  δῆμος (dêmos) 'people, tribe' and  ὄνυμα (ónuma) 'name') or gentilic (from Latin  gentilis 'of a clan, or gens') is a word that identifies a group of people (inhabitants, residents, natives) in relation to a particular place. Demonyms are usually derived from the name of the place (hamlet, village, town, city, re...


[9/1/2024 6:07 PM] rsulfuratus
anyway I think this basic history is logical, I'll probably push some updates tonight


[9/1/2024 6:08 PM] .deciusmus
When are you setting this family game? 1740s?


[9/1/2024 6:10 PM] rsulfuratus
probaby, haven't decided


[9/1/2024 6:25 PM] rsulfuratus
thinking also about titles and governance a bit, I'm leaning towards Addermarch retaining a system similar to Tyrwingha but without the fey influence. pre-Drankor, both Tyrwingha and Addermarch centralize power largely in the hands of the earls, a group of knights-errants basically, who answer to Ethlenn in Tyrwingha but perhaps to no central authority in Addermarch, or perhaps the earls elect one of their own to be overking.

during Drankorian rule, the earls are coopted by the Drankorian state in both places with a governor ruling, but in Addermarch -- which has a much more violent post-Drankor history -- you basically revert back to earls electing an overking after Drankor falls


[9/1/2024 6:26 PM] rsulfuratus
so it has a lot of cultural parallels with Tyrwingha but more of a rugged independent vibe and without the fey influence


[9/1/2024 8:49 PM] rsulfuratus
on a related topic, do you have any names for political subunits of Tyrwingha? wondering if this should be English (e.g., shires) or more French, perhaps county


[9/1/2024 8:50 PM] .deciusmus
I’m not sure there are political subunits


[9/1/2024 8:50 PM] .deciusmus
I think earls have circuits


[9/1/2024 8:50 PM] .deciusmus
But not fixed domains per se


[9/1/2024 8:50 PM] rsulfuratus
but there are no layers between earls and individual manors?


[9/1/2024 8:51 PM] .deciusmus
I don’t think so. Tyrwingha is physically fairly small


[9/1/2024 8:53 PM] .deciusmus
Celyns village, which Kiya developed in a fair bit of detail, doesn’t have a lord of any sort except the earl


[9/1/2024 8:53 PM] .deciusmus
It was left a little unclear whether sembara introduced the idea of manorial feudalism


[9/1/2024 8:54 PM] rsulfuratus
right. i guess addermarch doesn't have to follow precisely but perhaps there isn't much benefit to introducing another layer


[9/1/2024 8:55 PM] .deciusmus
Or more specifically my view was something like….

In traditional Tyrwingha there were earls who rode circuits and collected labor tithes from those on their circuits (and the earl and their household would basically live off the people and villages in their circuit)


[9/1/2024 8:55 PM] .deciusmus
In northern Tyrwingha sembaran manorial feudalism starting to spread from sembara


[9/1/2024 8:55 PM] .deciusmus
But I left it undeveloped how far jt had spread


[9/1/2024 8:56 PM] .deciusmus
One of the ideas is that in Tyrwingha the fey protect the people from the mysterious scary threats


[9/1/2024 8:56 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, that makes sense


[9/1/2024 8:57 PM] .deciusmus
Whereas in sembara that’s the job of the manorial lord


[9/1/2024 8:57 PM] rsulfuratus
addermarch has a lot of castles and forts that need to be supported


[9/1/2024 8:57 PM] .deciusmus
So there are less taxes and formal hierarchy in Tyrwingha


[9/1/2024 8:58 PM] .deciusmus
Addermarch on the other hand might have formalized a group of effectively castellans beneath the earls who control the defenses


[9/1/2024 8:58 PM] rsulfuratus
but i was imagining something that wasn't directly manorial feudalism, more like you have shires or counties or whatever that have a count or a baron or whatever, and then need to support defense via castles but the castles are generally occupied by a knight or a castellan who does not have any herditary claim on the land


[9/1/2024 8:59 PM] rsulfuratus
but maybe you can cut out the count/baron whatever and just have the knights/castellans as vassals of the earls


[9/1/2024 8:59 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, I’d do that. Addermarch is small. I think it’s smaller than Ireland for example


[9/1/2024 9:00 PM] rsulfuratus
it is about 23,000 square miles, ireland is about 25,000


[9/1/2024 9:03 PM] .deciusmus
It’s also a place that could be a bit random/not neat. Maybe there’s an uneven divide amongst the earls and the earl of the southern border has a couple of vassals between them and the knights


[9/1/2024 9:03 PM] .deciusmus
Not necessarily of course but if it makes sense for a story/histody


[9/1/2024 9:03 PM] .deciusmus
But I don’t think there should be a formalized subdivision like sembaran baronies

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:04 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah there are also some not neat things like the lord of adderfell is considered an earl despite not riding a circuit and functioning basically like a manorial lord

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:23 PM] .deciusmus
Another thing to think about is the fey influence isn’t empty on addermarch - the southern part is part of the fey “belt” right? But these are duskmire fey or perhaps other domains not so safe/under control as Tyrwinghan fey.


[9/1/2024 9:24 PM] .deciusmus
So I kinda think addermarch should have more of a fey influence then say sembara … but in a more “they are dangerous” way


[9/1/2024 9:24 PM] rsulfuratus
originally the idea was duskmire started in the region of the feywild colocated with darkwood


[9/1/2024 9:24 PM] rsulfuratus
(and is the source of the "Darkwood" name)


[9/1/2024 9:24 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah


[9/1/2024 9:24 PM] .deciusmus
But that’s the southern border of addermarch right?


[9/1/2024 9:24 PM] rsulfuratus
yup


[9/1/2024 9:25 PM] .deciusmus
I guess addermarch itself is under less clear fey influence


[9/1/2024 9:25 PM] rsulfuratus
well, it is definitely a place where people worry about the fey


[9/1/2024 9:25 PM] rsulfuratus
but with almost the opposite vibes of tyrwingha


[9/1/2024 9:25 PM] .deciusmus
Right


[9/1/2024 9:26 PM] rsulfuratus
except probably the the far eastern part of addermarch along the tyrwinghan border, which is relatively far from the darkwood and very close to ethlenn. possibly colocated with sunset gate

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:27 PM] .deciusmus
As an aside - I haven’t developed the rangers a lot, but I’ve implied they are relatively active in addermarch

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:27 PM] rsulfuratus
what is your take on climate, geography, biomes, general landscape vibes of the tyrwinghan highlands?


[9/1/2024 9:27 PM] rsulfuratus
e.g. western/southern border


[9/1/2024 9:27 PM] .deciusmus
Virgina Appalachia


[9/1/2024 9:28 PM] rsulfuratus
perfect


[9/1/2024 9:29 PM] rsulfuratus
Addermarch is roughly divided into four major geographic regions:
- To the west and northwest, the Maseau Escarpment is a region of rough hills and some mountains that borders the flat plains of the Maseau Gap. This is a hard land with few people. This area was extensively fortified at multiple times in the past, but the castles in the hills have not all been maintained and many are now in ruins. %% very mountainous, steep cliffs, maybe Provence-like? white mountains %%
- The center of the realm is the Aure river valley, a land of rolling hills, forests, and many rivers that cut through the hills. This region is the most densely settled, and includes Adderfell, the only real city in Addermarch. This is also the major agricultural land in Addermarch, and the center of brandy production. The Aure is navigable from Adderfell to the Enst, and many riverboats ply their trade along it. %% Shenandoah/Blue Hills, Susquehana river valley%%
- To the south and east of the Aure valley are several lines of wooded hills and mountains, rising gradually to the height of land on the eaves of the Darkwood. This region is well-guarded, and lightly populated, mostly with smallholds of foresters and furriers. %% also mid-Atlantic Appalachians but very wooded%%
- To the east and northeast, along the borders of Tyrwingha, the poor soil of the hilly, rocky land keeps forests to sheltered valleys. This is largely rangeland: sheep and cattle graze in the high pastures in summer, and only in a few sheltered valleys do crops survive. %% more open meadows, less forests, perhaps also a bit Provence-ish? %%


[9/1/2024 9:35 PM] .deciusmus
What about the northern hills?


[9/1/2024 9:35 PM] rsulfuratus
that is part of the Maseau Escarpment


[9/1/2024 9:35 PM] .deciusmus
I’d see the hills to the east more like the hills to the south


[9/1/2024 9:36 PM] .deciusmus
I think the Tyrwinghan / adderfell border is thicker forested hills than what you have above?


[9/1/2024 9:37 PM] rsulfuratus
I need to draw it out on a map and play a bit with it. i think I'm imagining that there are some higher mountains


[9/1/2024 9:37 PM] rsulfuratus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1279978588296318997/image.png?ex=678baeb4&is=678a5d34&hm=523db00aeebc4180d58fa644423f519fad19f6641f3aabe78e1e321bad383e23&


[9/1/2024 9:38 PM] rsulfuratus
kind of along the part of the border that runs east/west


[9/1/2024 9:38 PM] rsulfuratus
not the border that runs north/south


[9/1/2024 9:39 PM] .deciusmus
Although maybe the forested slopes on the northern/eastern side give way to worse soil and rocky land on the west/south slopes


[9/1/2024 9:41 PM] .deciusmus
The only thing I’ve established is that the hills to the far east are pretty forested


[9/1/2024 9:44 PM] .deciusmus
Also that the land between the mostreve hills and the enst is rocky with steep hills and forested valleys, but hard to navigate as it rises to the Appalachian-like peaks between adderfell  and the borderlands. Basically you wouldn’t go that way if you could help it versus down the Aure


[9/1/2024 9:45 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, this is what I'm calling the Maseau Escarpment

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:45 PM] rsulfuratus
basically like a big "C" with the lower curve truncated on the west end of the mostreve hills


[9/1/2024 9:47 PM] rsulfuratus
on the very western edge it is very steep and drops to a flat(ish) plain at the "Gap of Maseau" but the north is broader and probably more mountains and less dramatic cliffs rising from a plain

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:47 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah that works


[9/1/2024 9:48 PM] .deciusmus
I had a barony of mostreve and a barony of brumecliff along the mountains in the borderlands.


[9/1/2024 9:48 PM] .deciusmus
Neither name has to be canonical


[9/1/2024 9:49 PM] .deciusmus
I was kinda figuring they were named after features of the mountains but never sorted it out in detail


[9/1/2024 9:51 PM] rsulfuratus
I am going to work on a mostreve hills page with a bit more detail on how I image the geography but open to changes

{Reactions}
👍

[9/1/2024 9:51 PM] rsulfuratus
probably not tonight


[9/2/2024 11:38 AM] rsulfuratus
do you have a pro subscription to inkarante or is the free version good enough for the maps you've made for e.g. barony of aveil?


[9/2/2024 11:45 AM] .deciusmus
Pro susbscription


[9/2/2024 11:45 AM] .deciusmus
I think the free doesnt have very many good stamps


[9/2/2024 11:46 AM] rsulfuratus
ah yeah looking at now, free is pretty minimal


[9/2/2024 12:04 PM] rsulfuratus
btw at some point I'm thinking of making a vector-based world hex map to be a slightly better organized version of the "canonical map", probably using the Adventurer Conqueror King system (smallest unit is the 6 mile hex, which aggregate to 24 mile hexes), but then I'd likely add a rough 85 x 85 mile square (1 degree latitude) and a 425 mile square. so on the large map you'd have a 20x20 grid as the biggest aggregation, with each grid cell representing 5 degrees latitude, and breaking down into 25 smaller squares, with each smaller square containing ~12 big hexes


[9/2/2024 12:05 PM] rsulfuratus
main question is what to make it in


[9/2/2024 12:05 PM] rsulfuratus
would not be designed to be player facing so doesn't have to look good


[9/2/2024 12:05 PM] rsulfuratus
but ideally would be editable by both of us


[9/2/2024 12:05 PM] rsulfuratus
and would be done with vectors so zoomable


[9/2/2024 4:26 PM] .deciusmus
I read your addermarch  history which in general I quite like. The idea of the rangers originating as guerilla bands against Atavus in the 1400s is very appealing

[9/2/2024 4:38 PM] .deciusmus
One thought on addermarch - the history of 1720-1740 might be a bit hard to work out esp as it relates to Duskmire and the fey. I’m not sure if you are planning much fey involvement in the family campaign though


[9/2/2024 4:38 PM] rsulfuratus
Nathaniel wants to be a warlock with an archfey patron


[9/2/2024 4:38 PM] rsulfuratus
but i doubt that requires lots of details


[9/2/2024 4:39 PM] rsulfuratus
e.g. doesn't really matter if something dramatic happens to Umbreath in your campaign


[9/2/2024 4:39 PM] rsulfuratus
as long as like the Darkwood is not cleansed of all darkness or something


[9/2/2024 4:40 PM] rsulfuratus
in any case i want him to be free to be silly and creative so not planning on trying to connect his fey patron to more established lore, particularly


[9/2/2024 4:42 PM] .deciusmus
Right, makes sense. There are a bunch of spaces for random minor fey lords along the sunset gate


[9/2/2024 4:42 PM] .deciusmus
That are broadly “good” and aligned with Ethlenn


[9/2/2024 4:42 PM] rsulfuratus
i was either going to do that, or someone from the talking animals realm


[9/2/2024 4:42 PM] rsulfuratus
since I think nathaniel would like a talking animals fey patron


[9/2/2024 4:42 PM] .deciusmus
Ah, sure.


[9/2/2024 4:43 PM] rsulfuratus
which could also be along sunset gate, just further north, so would make more sense if he wants to be from somewhere "far away"


[9/2/2024 4:46 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah it could also be to the west a bit, north of duskmire and overlapping zimkova


[9/2/2024 4:48 PM] rsulfuratus
right, I was just looking at the old feywild map you made


[9/2/2024 4:48 PM] rsulfuratus
which we should really put in obsidian at some point


[9/2/2024 4:48 PM] .deciusmus
I thought I did in worldbuilding but maybe not


[9/2/2024 6:06 PM] rsulfuratus
sent you an invite link for an adobe fresco hex map of Addermarch / Sembaran borderlands / Tyrwingha to test out. I think simple editing is free, should work on windows or ipad


[9/2/2024 7:45 PM] rsulfuratus
FYI I also made up with the help of maps + chatGPT about 50 village names derived from Gaelic or Old French / Norman French, sometimes with Old English mixed in, and got chat GPT to make up folk entymologies for all of them, if useful in the brainstorming section of wordlbuilding. if you use any, mark as used


[9/2/2024 9:43 PM] .deciusmus
seems to require photoshop subscription





[9/10/2024 4:08 PM] .deciusmus
which river is the umber


[9/10/2024 4:10 PM] rsulfuratus
Aure - main river that runs from Darkwood north past Adderfell
~ East Aure Fork ~ - the river that joins Aure from the east, just north of Adderfell
~ Main Aure Fork ~ - the river that joins Aure from the west, a bit north of Adderfell
- Umber - the river that joins the Main Aure Fork furthest west


[9/10/2024 4:11 PM] rsulfuratus
don't have the other branch (that joins Main Aure Fork between Umber and Adderfell confluence) in notes yet


[9/10/2024 4:33 PM] .deciusmus
Not sure best way to comment, but here are a few on the Mostreve Hills:

I'm not totally sure I understand the geography.


Is your view that the four regions you have are basically what I've labeld 1/2/3/4 here:

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283163420862054410/image.png?ex=678b674f&is=678a15cf&hm=07acf87056f182e332a12c6bdcdb395178d4a90f41b1cc29d04543dc67a16c7f&


[9/10/2024 4:33 PM] rsulfuratus
yes


[9/10/2024 4:34 PM] .deciusmus
I was confused because you had "NORTH" of Latazaro swamp, took me a minute to figure out you meant south (I'm fixing)


[9/10/2024 4:35 PM] .deciusmus
how hilly is the darkwood? is it split by the hills, or kinda more inside the "bowl"?


[9/10/2024 4:36 PM] rsulfuratus
more inside the bowl imo


[9/10/2024 4:36 PM] rsulfuratus
although also it is clearly along a watershed divide


[9/10/2024 4:37 PM] rsulfuratus
but i think the highest ground actually runs kind of along the edge of the rivers just below 2


[9/10/2024 4:37 PM] .deciusmus
right. maybe [[westcliff]] is more like a sideways T


[9/10/2024 4:39 PM] .deciusmus
or I guess not quite, but the land of the Darkwood itself is hilly to the west and north, less so to the south and east


[9/10/2024 4:40 PM] rsulfuratus
I think [[Westcliff]] is kind of a big C marked in brown, with the very steep sections the two parallel lines due west

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283165217051639828/image.png?ex=678b68fb&is=678a177b&hm=c2b7db4a3c8ed8046143df59fecb13fc4d772a09759ea80463226a90e80e3e6b&


[9/10/2024 4:41 PM] .deciusmus
height of land being something like:

with 1 being the highest, then 2, then 4, and 3, then 5

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283165541275664477/image.png?ex=678b6949&is=678a17c9&hm=2ddfb8d93928c824b2a8802a5b49aa957dd36df80cc80ca00c3e7eafcc514d85&


[9/10/2024 4:42 PM] rsulfuratus
yes, exactly


[9/10/2024 4:42 PM] rsulfuratus
maybe swapping 4 and 3


[9/10/2024 4:43 PM] rsulfuratus
or anyway 4 and 3 are pretty close. 5 is noticably less high than 3/4

{Reactions}
👍

[9/10/2024 4:43 PM] rsulfuratus
so you have in the "East Aure Fork" highlands a fair bit of bare, open ground and some alpine meadows, while in 5 ("Tyrwingha borderlands") you have more rolling hills largely forested at the summits


[9/10/2024 4:44 PM] rsulfuratus
(but some of this is driven by poor soil in the 3/4 area as these are not quite as tall and definitely not as steep as 1)


[9/10/2024 5:47 PM] .deciusmus
Geographically, the Mostreve Hills are composed of five distinct ridgelines:
* The [[Westcliff]] ridge runs in a truncated north-south 'C', on the western edge of the Mostreve Hills, with the highest and steepest parts of the ridge along the western edge, bordering the [[Maseau Gap]]. The highest peaks of the Mostreve Hills are here, especially along the western escarpment. 
* The ~Unnamed Aure Headwaters Ridge~ runs mostly east-west, arising from the rolling hills of the [[Aure]] river valley some 50 miles east of the [[Westcliff]] ridge, and cutting in a south-south-easterly line towards the headwaters of the [[Tarn]]. This ridgeline partially separates [[Addermarch]] from the [[Darkwood]]. 
* The ~Tyrwinghan Ridge~, which runs in a north-easterly line, starting north of the [[Tarn]]
* The ~North Tyrwinghan Ridge~ which is east of the Aure, and runs in a series of lines running north-west from the Tyrwinghan ridge. These peaks are notably gentler than the other ridges, and form less of a barrier to travel.
* The ~Orlenas Ridge~, which starts south of the [[Latazaro]] swamp and runs almost due east until it grows in the [[~Cymea Border Mountains~]]


[9/10/2024 5:49 PM] .deciusmus
In between these ridgelines are several major gaps:
* The [[Aure]] river cuts between the [[Westcliff]] and Tyrwinghan ridges, in a broad and relatively fertile river valley
* The Darkwood creeps north between the [[Westcliff]] ridge and the ~Unnamed Aure Headwaters Ridge~, forming a hilly wildland on the southern borders of [[Addermarch]]
* (Something between the Aure Headwaters Ridge and the Tyrwinghan Ridge, on the map at least it looks like it should be a hilly gap, although not sure what is here)
* Between the ~Tyrwinghan Ridge~ and the ~Orlenas Ridge~ the land is hilly but there are few high ridgelines, and multiple passes cut through the Mostreve HIlls immediately northwest of [[Orenlas]].


[9/10/2024 5:49 PM] .deciusmus
Not sure if the ridges would actually be named, although historically in i.e. the applachian mts everything is (Blue Ridge, Smokies, WHite Mts, Green Mts, Berkshires, Poconos, etc)


[9/10/2024 5:56 PM] .deciusmus
A few other random thoughts... 

(a) the lower Aure is somewhat unclear. Is it unsettled (if so, why)? If not (on the map it is mostly Tyrwinghan, I guess), what is the transition between Addermarch and Tyrwingha? Is there a formal border? A geographic feature

(b) the upper "Aure East Fork" also seems a bit unclear. It is hilly and impassible? Too dangerous for settlement? Too close to elves?


[9/10/2024 5:56 PM] rsulfuratus
I think this is basically right. A few small details / additions:
- The Aure Headwaters Ridge increases in height as you move to the southeast, and the soil gets poorer, so e.g. near the Aure headwaters you have the creeping edge of the Darkwood (which I think the Addermarians would see really as something that is invading their country and needs to be cut back), but by the southeastern end (headwaters of river that heads south to plaguelands) this is dry, marginal land with bad soil and can't support much in the way of forests
- The  Tyrwingan Ridge I think runs the same way in reverse, steepest/highest/worst land on the southwest end, getting better as you move north/east towards Tyrwingha
- The "East Aure River Valley" is a gap between the Aure Headers and Tyrwingan Ridge, which is not forested except in pockets, and is generally poor soil and pastureland, but supports a lot of sheep and cows potentially


[9/10/2024 5:58 PM] rsulfuratus
Re questions:
(a) there probably needs to be a border between Tyrwingha and Addermarch along the lower Aure. I don't think Addermarch extends all the way to the Enst


[9/10/2024 5:58 PM] .deciusmus
Right, agree with that, but not clear why a border. Maybe just the edge of Ethlenn's claim


[9/10/2024 5:58 PM] .deciusmus
?


[9/10/2024 5:58 PM] rsulfuratus
that is probably the most obvious answer


[9/10/2024 5:59 PM] .deciusmus
It might also make sense to run a small river from approximately "5" on the map above to the Aure, to form a border


[9/10/2024 5:59 PM] .deciusmus
or I guess somewhere between 4 & 5


[9/10/2024 6:00 PM] rsulfuratus
i think also this is an area where there isn't a clear sense of physical borders. before drankor anyway everyone owed allegiance to an earl but they don't have physical lines, in that a village to earl A coudl be surrounded by a vilalge to earl B in theory


[9/10/2024 6:00 PM] rsulfuratus
at some point Tyrwingha probably reshuffles things (during Drankor negotiations?) so that only Ethlenn's claim is separate from Drankor


[9/10/2024 6:00 PM] rsulfuratus
but no reason there needs to be a physical feature to define a border here


[9/10/2024 6:03 PM] .deciusmus
Right. Maybe there is an ancient line of Drankorian/fey border stones


[9/10/2024 6:03 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah that would be interesting


[9/10/2024 6:03 PM] .deciusmus
I kinda like that better than a river


[9/10/2024 6:05 PM] rsulfuratus
i think the addermarch border to the north runs along the line of the cliffs (where there really isnt a border since no one lives on the very summits), and on the west side of the Aure the cliff line basically meets the river, anything north of that is "not Addermarch" but might be either Tyrwingha or Sembaran borderlands


[9/10/2024 6:06 PM] rsulfuratus
on the east of the Aure, the border with Tyrwingha is marked by ancient stones from Drankorian era with fey markings


[9/10/2024 6:07 PM] rsulfuratus
something like the blue lines

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283187196194717810/image.png?ex=678b7d74&is=678a2bf4&hm=83db02c1ee751fa93eff9132ae62256255fbff91f02a4f8eaf6922190edb2f42&


[9/10/2024 6:08 PM] .deciusmus
Right. I was envisioning stones that went from the Aure to peak along ridge. Sorta where the blue line is but maybe a little bit south, i.e. just straighter east


[9/10/2024 6:09 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah that works too


[9/10/2024 6:09 PM] .deciusmus
The Tyrwinghan border, is basically then: the coast/Aure/line of markers/not defined because no one lives in the southern parts of the Tyrwinghan ridge


[9/10/2024 6:11 PM] rsulfuratus
something like

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283188115154141256/image.png?ex=678b7e4f&is=678a2ccf&hm=c9deaac72e5f12d1e109f11fff1a48509c638821e66f87658489cfb712e6ad7d&


[9/10/2024 6:11 PM] .deciusmus
basically this:

where the yellow highlight is tyrwinghan border, the red x's is the fey/drankorian marker line, and the blue scribble is a height of land

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283188123446018058/image.png?ex=678b7e51&is=678a2cd1&hm=da4c82ef0d3f528bc5369954737039cd0ce81f44c343cdb2b889422007bdfc1b&


[9/10/2024 6:12 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah


[9/10/2024 6:12 PM] .deciusmus
so the "tyrwinghan" ridge region doesn't have "borders", it is just unsettled land between tyrwinghan and addermarch


[9/10/2024 6:13 PM] .deciusmus
I'm not totally clear on what the forset just south of the hills is though


[9/10/2024 6:13 PM] rsulfuratus
that is plaguelands


[9/10/2024 6:13 PM] .deciusmus
ah. I didn't realize the stretched so far north


[9/10/2024 6:13 PM] .deciusmus
so is that river / lake all plaguelands, basically (west of Orenlas)?


[9/10/2024 6:14 PM] rsulfuratus
i think the rivers that join just north of the big southern lake delimit the kind of outer edge of the influence of Orenlas


[9/10/2024 6:15 PM] rsulfuratus
although none of this is technically canon. in the defunct Plaguelands campaign the Cinder Court (which was the main enemy) was going to be based in the forests between Orenlas and Addermarch


[9/10/2024 6:15 PM] .deciusmus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283189233191747655/image.png?ex=678b7f59&is=678a2dd9&hm=fa0f2fa7092457e90eb8670c1de76b45f9dd4c24a3314d231ab94b7895e2dc4a&


[9/10/2024 6:16 PM] .deciusmus
hard to read, but trying to say the far west blue circle is darkwood. the yellow line is about Orenlas? But the other 2 big blue circles.. are you saying those are plagueland? Or just "hrm bad stuff no people who knows what bad stuff"?


[9/10/2024 6:16 PM] rsulfuratus
the lower left "?" is, IMO, kinda "Darkwood++"


[9/10/2024 6:17 PM] rsulfuratus
the Darkwood in my mind has this kind of "evil fey" vibe of always trying to press in and grow into the human kingdoms


[9/10/2024 6:17 PM] .deciusmus
this doesn't have to be canon, but:

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283189641184546917/image.png?ex=678b7fba&is=678a2e3a&hm=dc518a9bdfb867bae1bf5f9f6141a0663b4057f121c385552b4b875076cab639&


[9/10/2024 6:18 PM] .deciusmus
but maybe twilight's grace doesn't so quite so far south and/or the taelgar/feywild mapping isn't perfect or something


[9/10/2024 6:18 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah exactly so the lower left ? is matching up perfectly with Duskmire


[9/10/2024 6:18 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah


[9/10/2024 6:18 PM] .deciusmus
I think that's clearly Darkwood/Darkwood++


[9/10/2024 6:18 PM] rsulfuratus
Twilight's Grace borders though should be adjusted to not cover addermarch


[9/10/2024 6:18 PM] rsulfuratus
and match the Drankorian border stones


[9/10/2024 6:19 PM] .deciusmus
yeah


[9/10/2024 6:19 PM] rsulfuratus
I'd move "3" down to fill it, but it also sets up Addermarch as kind of a battleground state in the feywild


[9/10/2024 6:20 PM] rsulfuratus
and 3 here - covering Fellburn and Eskbridge - is potentially the domain of Nathaniel's patron and the de Brune family secret fey


[9/10/2024 6:20 PM] .deciusmus
"3" is the "mostly Ethlenn aligned border small fey kingdoms"


[9/10/2024 6:21 PM] .deciusmus
so fits the de Brune secret fey perfectly, although I think maybe it is a unsettled place without a clear single "master archfey domain"


[9/10/2024 6:21 PM] rsulfuratus
right, yes


[9/10/2024 6:21 PM] .deciusmus
Still open question what is between Tyrwinghan and Orenlas


[9/10/2024 6:22 PM] .deciusmus
which relates to Addermarch in the sense of ... why havent they expanded up the Aure East Fork valley


[9/10/2024 6:22 PM] .deciusmus
what makes that southeastern border a border?


[9/10/2024 6:22 PM] rsulfuratus
in my mind, the mountains are much rougher and steeper than indicated on the world map


[9/10/2024 6:22 PM] .deciusmus
right, ok


[9/10/2024 6:23 PM] rsulfuratus
I think if you look at the topography as implied by watersheds instead of the drawn hills


[9/10/2024 6:24 PM] .deciusmus
so you really have high ridges like:

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283191327147687956/image.png?ex=678b814c&is=678a2fcc&hm=bdd17be8686c2c488c92772b559a83231c06de26a7f175a44270285e1b01e451&


[9/10/2024 6:24 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, i think that is more accurate


[9/10/2024 6:25 PM] rsulfuratus
then what is the woods northeast of darkwood and west of orenlas is an open question but definitely not "human civilization"


[9/10/2024 6:25 PM] .deciusmus
I like that, lessens the need to define what is south of the hills


[9/10/2024 6:26 PM] .deciusmus
So basically, in my "five ridgelines" the big change is really that the "Aure Headwaters Ridge" runs all the way east until it connects with the Tyrwinghan Ridge


[9/10/2024 6:27 PM] .deciusmus
and probably that area - where the ridges intersect - is the highest and roughest terrain east of [[Westcliff]]

{Reactions}
👍

[9/10/2024 6:29 PM] .deciusmus
so something like:

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1283192730293370943/image.png?ex=678b829b&is=678a311b&hm=a603b508ae841b6d788580f17c65cf0b8e546b8beddfcfa7e727760a2ca856ae&


[9/10/2024 6:30 PM] .deciusmus
yellow = major ridges
green = lower/minor ridges
red xs = particularly high points


[9/10/2024 6:30 PM] rsulfuratus
👍


[9/10/2024 6:43 PM] .deciusmus
### Borders

To the west and northwest Addermarch is bordered by the [[Westcliff]], a series of sharp cliffs and dangerous terrain that separates the realm from the flat plains of the [[Duchy of Maseau]] to the west, and the [[Borderlands|Sembaran borderlands]] to the north. At the Aure, the high ridge of [[Westcliff]] is cut by the river, and on the eastern bank, the land is much lower. Here an ancient line of border stones running to [[~High Peak of Tyrwinghan Ridge~]] demarcates the border with [[Tyrwingha]]. These stones are said by some to be raised by Drankor, but they are marked with complex warnings in [[Sylvan Writing|Sylvan]], and many believe they have fey origins.

The eastern border is not marked, as the high terrain between Addermarch and Tyrwinghan is unpopulated. The gentler, forested slopes to the north and east are under the demense of Tyrwinghan earls, and the dryer, arid slopes to the south and west, the land of Addermarian earls.

To the south, Addermarch is bordered by the high ridge of the [[Mostreve Hills]], where the headwaters of the [[Tarn]] flow, and then, to the southwest, the [[Darkwood]]. This border is carefully watched for fear of what might creep out in the shadows.


[9/10/2024 7:04 PM] rsulfuratus
Great


[9/10/2024 8:39 PM] rsulfuratus
did you push any of this? working on some updates


[9/10/2024 8:40 PM] .deciusmus
no, pushing a bit now


[9/10/2024 8:40 PM] .deciusmus
got distracted by dinner + such but looking at it now again


[9/10/2024 8:42 PM] .deciusmus
I pushed the addermarch border update


[9/10/2024 8:42 PM] .deciusmus
am pushing mostreve in a minute although still a little rough


[9/10/2024 8:53 PM] .deciusmus
I'm pushing mostreve but I think it still needs a bit of work and some of the language is a bit rougher than what you had


[9/10/2024 8:53 PM] rsulfuratus
that's fine
