[1/28/2024 6:08 PM] rsulfuratus
looking at various status/tim things. 

on Avatus: don't have strong feelings human vs hobgoblin; feel free to choose, or he could be something else entirely. 

I think the exact history of where this dominion came from can probably be left a bit unclear. 

I do think the vibe kind of suggests that in the aftermath of the fall of Drankor, Sembara is a bit of a backwater, initially. Especially once the Dunmari arrive in late 1100s and clear up the lingering curse, you have a pretty powerful set of realms from Cymea - Isingue - Dunmar - Chardon. 

The Skaer in a more raiding phase, and the Dominion of Avatus, really kind of hem in Sembara pre-Derik I.


[1/28/2024 6:12 PM] .deciusmus
Yes; definitely think his dominion origination unclear for now; I do think the breakup of a fairly large autocracy is a good way to expand Sembara without "conqueoring" in the usual sense, so I like Avatus stretching basically from the mountains to Tyrwingha


[1/28/2024 6:12 PM] .deciusmus
and Maseau/Addermarch/western Sembara comes from the collapse


[1/28/2024 6:14 PM] rsulfuratus
so it does play a bit into the human/hobgoblin/other decision, to think a bit about whether the reconquest is liberating basically still intact populated areas that were ruled by Avatus, or resettling depopulated areas?


[1/28/2024 6:14 PM] rsulfuratus
of course viable to have either option for human or hobgoblin or something else


[1/28/2024 6:15 PM] rsulfuratus
i might actually be inclined to make Avatus a bit more unique/powerful in his own right than just human/hobgoblin, but without making him fantastic enough that it feels weird his unusual nature hasn't come up


[1/28/2024 6:16 PM] .deciusmus
I'm inclined to leave his exact nature somewhat undefined. He clearly has hobgoblins working for him, but I think he had motivations that were not exactly just pure destruction and murder


[1/28/2024 6:17 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, that seems right


[1/28/2024 6:18 PM] .deciusmus
At the same time, I think violence depopulates a place pretty rapidly.  So for practical purposes, I think a Maseau, for example, ends up being a "new" place after Avatus. If the deep history of Maseau ever matters, it probably isn't the case that there were literally no humans then when Avatus was defeated. But at the same time, the political structures were imposed by Derik I as part of the foundation of Sembara


[1/28/2024 6:19 PM] .deciusmus
imposed is probably the wrong word - received gracefully. And then it became a land of a lot of new settlement


[1/28/2024 6:19 PM] .deciusmus
So by the time of the Great War, Maseau and the other "new" duchies in Sembara are pretty Sembaran.


[1/28/2024 6:20 PM] .deciusmus
But also, I guess, pretty Sembaran only in the sense of loyal to the House of Sewick


[1/28/2024 6:21 PM] .deciusmus
so when things start to fall apart after the Great War, there is a distinct sense of place for Maseau


[1/28/2024 6:22 PM] rsulfuratus
I mean it depends a bit on Avatus' motives. if he needs agricultural productivity, he is going to reign in his armies and make sure they don't massacre the peasants


[1/28/2024 6:22 PM] rsulfuratus
sure, people will still flee


[1/28/2024 6:23 PM] rsulfuratus
anyway, not sure it matters too much


[1/28/2024 6:24 PM] .deciusmus
Right, I think what I'm actually trying to say is that whatever political entity did or did not exist pre-Avatus is functionally irrelevant post-Avatus. Maseau and other parts of western/borderland Sembara probably are generic "Sembaran/Drankorian" types, with fewer than usual Zimka/kestavo influences with a somewhat irrevelvant pre-Avatus history


[1/28/2024 6:24 PM] rsulfuratus
yes, agreed


[1/28/2024 6:24 PM] .deciusmus
I do think there is probably some sense of culture/people that is distinct from the heartland duchies


[1/28/2024 6:25 PM] .deciusmus
And so Derik I basically creates a new Duchy of Maseau where the duke is loyal to Sewick and declares a bunch of the land part of the royal demense and then leaves the Duke to run the place similar to how the dukes run the heartland duchies


[1/28/2024 6:25 PM] rsulfuratus
the main semi-canon effects of Avatus are whatever you've introduced in your campaign, and the idea that the edge of the Sentinels west of Isingue remains something of a wildlands, a place where hobgoblins and other nasty things linger. you have e.g. Revaka three generations later, and then the various hobgoblin attacks / armies in the high school campaign


[1/28/2024 6:26 PM] rsulfuratus
so Avatus is kind of a useful placeholder there - defeated, but not every bit of his army wiped from the earth


[1/28/2024 6:26 PM] rsulfuratus
but yes I agree that the pre-Avatus political structures become irrelevant post-Avatus


[1/28/2024 6:27 PM] .deciusmus
I imagine somewhat of a gradient, the upper Isatoros watershed is probably still pretty dangerous until post-Great War, when the shifting plaguelands prevent travel from going south via Isingue


[1/28/2024 6:27 PM] .deciusmus
i.e. in 1500 you'd have a major trade route running via Urlich Pass and another running south from Cleenseau -> Maseau -> Isingue


[1/28/2024 6:28 PM] .deciusmus
but say, Raven's Hold is probably pretty marginal/doesn't exist/definitely isn't on a human trade road


[1/28/2024 6:28 PM] .deciusmus
Post Great War things shift as Urlich is destroyed (the impact of that I think was pretty brutal, it probably pretty much entirely depopulated the Duchy of Brovna, which I was envisioning as one of the richest duchies, sitting in Urlich / trade center  etc)


[1/28/2024 6:29 PM] rsulfuratus
Ravens Hold is originally constructed as part of a series of defenses in northern dunmar against hobgoblin activity pre-Great War


[1/28/2024 6:29 PM] .deciusmus
right, that fits the above perfectly


[1/28/2024 6:30 PM] .deciusmus
although I guess also with Ardith still intact the heart of the mountains were probably safer


[1/28/2024 6:30 PM] rsulfuratus
Below the mountains, yes. But I think the foothills were pretty dangerous


[1/28/2024 6:30 PM] .deciusmus
but the sweep of land where the Reofounded Alliance of Aurbez is now would have been pretty dangerous as well, I imagine


[1/28/2024 6:31 PM] rsulfuratus
Yes. Ardith would have been pretty fortified as well


[1/28/2024 6:33 PM] .deciusmus
Anyway, in my "grand sweep of Sembaran history v2" I'm basically imagining, with the fall of Avatus, a series of powerful duchies established along the borders - Maseau and Brovna, in particular - which is a big expansion in the size of sembara and a big centralization of power as these duchies are much more under the control of the monarch than the traidtional duchies


[1/28/2024 8:38 PM] rsulfuratus
added a few small notes to the human funerary traditions page, but generally would say it is good


[1/29/2024 5:08 PM] .deciusmus
You have a misaligned SECRET tag in Drankoran Empire page


[1/30/2024 9:56 PM] .deciusmus
I pushed the updated funeral stuff


[1/30/2024 9:56 PM] .deciusmus
The tyrwingha page is still a bit vague but the rest I think is done


[1/31/2024 5:56 PM] .deciusmus
I'm trying to clean up my Cleenseau NPCs because my players have started asking if random people they met 4 sessions ago are still around...

So I was trying to find all the people who are in Cleenseau, includingthe people I've created without whereabouts...

Do you have concerns if I set simple whereabouts on some people, i.e. 

Adam Gower = Tollen
Yelena = Ursk
etc?



[2/1/2024 12:35 PM] rsulfuratus
also I just pushed a few comments on funerary traditions - nothing major basically look great to me

{Reactions}
üëç

[2/1/2024 1:24 PM] .deciusmus
one note, the Drankor stuff I wrote for my own background but is not something I'm going to publish. I intended it to be "canonical inspiration for Sembara" but not necessarily a canonical representation of what Drankorians actually did

{Reactions}
üëç

[2/1/2024 5:02 PM] .deciusmus
I did one more pass through what I wrote, and updated the Tyrwingha page. Mostly reorganization, so there is a page in "Brainstorming" for ideas. I moved some of your notes into brainstorming or incorporated into the body of the text.

Will likely publish tomorrow after I do a little bit of NPC cleanup


[2/1/2024 5:02 PM] .deciusmus
If you get a chance the main thing to look at would be Tyrwingha


[2/1/2024 5:53 PM] rsulfuratus
i think it all looks good. i might at some point flesh out in a bit more detail some of the religious history, both the northern folk religions and the dunmari have a basic framework of "we need to help ensure the soul gets to the land of the dead but then the gods take over" vs mos numena "the gods will make sure the soul makes it to the land of the dead, but we need to help with the journey"
