[12/23/2023 3:16 PM] .deciusmus
However, I might need to change #4 a bit as I'm not sure when Amberglow fell -- although it might be ok if it predates Amberglow falling


[12/23/2023 3:21 PM] .deciusmus
Duskmire was originally a small kingdom wedged between Amberglow, Twilight's Grace, Dreamhaven, and some unnamed fey kingdom that covers the heartland of Sembara (for various in game reasons I don't want Duskmire to be congruent with the heartland of Sembara)


[12/23/2023 3:25 PM] .deciusmus
It grew significantly to the south when the Cloudspinner was imprisoned, and more when the disruptions of the Great War


[12/23/2023 3:30 PM] .deciusmus
So actually having the Drankorian text describe Duskmire as a small realm nestled to the north of Amberglow, with only a single known portal somewhere in the Sentinels near Ulrich Pass, works pretty well


[12/26/2023 11:23 AM] rsulfuratus
thinking about your feywild stuff


[12/26/2023 11:23 AM] rsulfuratus
amberglow fell around 1000 DR


[12/26/2023 11:24 AM] rsulfuratus
although the exact timing could be fairly uncertain as it may have persisted in some form for some time after cloudspinner's disappearance


[12/26/2023 11:30 AM] rsulfuratus
more in a bit


[12/26/2023 11:55 AM] rsulfuratus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1189250089026338887/feywild.png?ex=678b3434&is=6789e2b4&hm=827aaffb47462ae2932d391d7abc935a6e20ee47178ad8cc720209c16127d373&


[12/26/2023 11:56 AM] rsulfuratus
this is kind of rough but I guess I'm not fully understanding the geography you are imagining? especially if the Cleanseau portal is new - that is too far north to be former Amberglow territory IMO


[12/26/2023 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus
Amberglow probably never really extended north of Insingue


[12/26/2023 11:57 AM] rsulfuratus
Shimmersong could easily extend a bit east, across the Aurbez plateu, and Duskmire could be in the Darkwood area


[12/26/2023 11:58 AM] rsulfuratus
fey geography doesn't need to perfectly match the material plane especially as a far as distances are concerned


[12/26/2023 1:12 PM] .deciusmus
Here's the geography I was imagining....

Original:

Duskmire stretches from the border of Twilights Grace west as far as the Sembaran Wall, south as far as the northern Mostreve Hills, and north as far as the Wistel


[12/26/2023 1:15 PM] .deciusmus
Between the fall of Amberglow and the disruptions of the Ulrich Pass, it has now grown, and roughly runs from the Andonne/Darkwood in the south and east, to the Wistel in the North, and as far west as Dreamhaven


[12/26/2023 1:16 PM] .deciusmus
Although I suspect Lord Umbraeth is somewhat welcoming to refugees and fugitives and sketchy types exiles from other places for bad behavior or whatever, and that the edges - and especially the western and southern edges - of his realm are somewhat of a loose confederation of allies


[12/26/2023 1:17 PM] .deciusmus
In Drankorian days ,the only portal to Duskmire that the Drankorians knew about was in the Sentinels west of the Mostreve Hills. The Cleenseau portal definitely was never Amberglow, it is a new portal to Duskmire


[12/26/2023 1:18 PM] .deciusmus
The key thing is that there is something to the north of Duskmire that checks Lord Umbraeth's ambitions or expansion


[12/26/2023 1:19 PM] .deciusmus
And actually his original realm could have been entirely south of the Enst. Maybe there was a fey kingdom that was nestled into the mountains east of Dreamhaven that was distrupted by Cha'mutte's death


[12/26/2023 1:53 PM] .deciusmus
Let me take a step back. Ultimately for my game I want Duskmire to:
(a) have expanded recently (ideally to include Cleenseau recently, although certainly since the Great War, and "recent" could be 100s of years ago)
(b) bordered by something odd and interesting in the west, Twilight's Grace in the east, something to the north that prevents expansion, and the shifting and chaotic borders of Amberglow to the south


[12/26/2023 1:55 PM] .deciusmus
i'm not sure how much you want to leave undeveloped in the Semaran feywild, but..


[12/26/2023 1:58 PM] .deciusmus
Here is one idea...

Thousands of years ago, when Umbraeth was exiled from Twilight's Grace, he established/took over/something a small kingdom, labeled D on this map:

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1189281114813124740/image.png?ex=678b5119&is=6789ff99&hm=d9dc38c574876a229043a90aa2b2632f4d41c0d1064c26a22bf70294ab07eb77&


[12/26/2023 1:58 PM] .deciusmus
Perhaps it was even a bit smaller, not covering the Darkwood


[12/26/2023 2:01 PM] .deciusmus
On the borders were two other fey realms (labeled 1 and 3) which today don't exist.

Realm 3 was an ally of Ethlenn's in some fashion, and Umbraeth tricking/killing/imprisoning/exiling/something him/her/them was the thing that lead to truly bad blood between them. 

So at some point, Duskmire expanded northward to cover the lands between the Andonne and Wistel, basically.


[12/26/2023 2:04 PM] .deciusmus
Then, when Cha'mutte died, some echo/something disrupted Realm 1. No idea what exactly (although actually, what if Cha'mutte's death somehow opened a connect to the Far Realms near Ulrich, and there is some kind of blight spreading - or perhaps not really spreading but just present - in all of the echo realms near Ulrich)


[12/26/2023 2:06 PM] .deciusmus
So now it looks like this:


[12/26/2023 2:06 PM] .deciusmus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1189283195552813056/image.png?ex=678b5309&is=678a0189&hm=9a844dc4867782e1ec9c3abed1c2ff52e6a094b5e3bcac0277a0cae643e74c00&


[12/26/2023 2:07 PM] .deciusmus
Realm 4 on the first map has expanded west a bit and is some sort of powerful fey who Umbraeth doesn't dare mess with


[12/26/2023 2:07 PM] .deciusmus
(now labeled 2, and not intentionally different from 1st map, just sloppy drawing, other than expanded to the west)


[12/26/2023 2:08 PM] .deciusmus
Duskmire (now in red) has grown substanitially


[12/26/2023 2:08 PM] .deciusmus
and realm 1 (now in black) is empty/strange/far-realm infested/shrunk/something


[12/26/2023 2:09 PM] .deciusmus
Darkwood is underdetermined, I realize I drew it a bit inconsistently, it could be part of Umbraeth's domain or it could be separate


[12/26/2023 2:12 PM] rsulfuratus
I think this basically works. I haven't yet completely worked out what actually happened when Cha'mutte died but this will likely be connected somehow to future Isingue adventure so I'd leave that uncertain and mysterious for now


[12/26/2023 2:12 PM] rsulfuratus
but some kind of desolate area that even Umbreath fears on the west is good


[12/26/2023 2:13 PM] .deciusmus
I was just thinking it could connect to the future part of my game that ends up dealing with far realm mindflayer stuff. But it doesn't have to


[12/26/2023 2:13 PM] rsulfuratus
Shimmersong is canonically kind of a fortress, with the winter knights who protect the kingdom when the Lightbringer is sleeping so it makes sense for it to have dangers on three sides


[12/26/2023 2:13 PM] .deciusmus
and that is a while away - the insinguer stuff might happen first actually


[12/26/2023 2:13 PM] rsulfuratus
we are likely to finish isingue before you get to mindflayers


[12/26/2023 2:16 PM] rsulfuratus
unless the exact borders are important for your plot i'd also leave the darkwood and the upper istaros a bit undeveloped


[12/26/2023 2:16 PM] .deciusmus
exact borders don't matter -


[12/26/2023 2:18 PM] rsulfuratus
look at the shimmersong note


[12/26/2023 2:19 PM] rsulfuratus
I think that the shimmersong / duskmire border would actually potentially be more interesting than the amberglow connection


[12/26/2023 2:19 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, just reading it


[12/26/2023 2:20 PM] .deciusmus
Although I think Umbraeth ultimately is motivated by a sense of betrayal and hatred from Ethlenn. So at some level he doesn't care about the west so much as he does the east. But that border does sound like an interesting place


[12/26/2023 2:22 PM] rsulfuratus
I think I would push shimmersong's eastern border a little east and north, so the Aurbez plateau is fully within Shimmersong, and Duskmire is really originally centered east of Masance and north of Andonne


[12/26/2023 2:23 PM] rsulfuratus
originally this was maybe, if not exactly empty land, not a strong realm, or perhaps was even gifted to Umbreath by Ethlynn, if the original split is more of an exile than a violent betrayal


[12/26/2023 2:23 PM] rsulfuratus
Ethlynn feels to me a like a archfey with significant power


[12/26/2023 2:23 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah


[12/26/2023 2:24 PM] .deciusmus
I agree withthat


[12/26/2023 2:24 PM] rsulfuratus
so likely the bordering realms would be allies / vassals


[12/26/2023 2:24 PM] rsulfuratus
her realm also borders Orenlas - or perhaps extends through Orenlas


[12/26/2023 2:25 PM] rsulfuratus
but also I think Ethylnn is more place-focused than many archfey


[12/26/2023 2:25 PM] .deciusmus
I actually like that a lot. He is originally exiled to his own realm, gifted by Ethlynn.


[12/26/2023 2:26 PM] .deciusmus
That works on a bunch of levels - the gift itself is a form of punishment, somewhat daring him to recreate her court for himself, which he can't do, so his inability to make even his own realm the kind of place he would want to live ends up its own kind of torment


[12/26/2023 2:27 PM] .deciusmus
Ethlenn could even the the original source of a deal, insisting that no one from her realm could go to his - which he thinks is a punishment for *her* but actually works out as a punishment to him beceause ultimately he loved the Twighlight Court, or whatever, which might be somewhat famous for its elegance and refinement, and upscale amusements


[12/26/2023 2:28 PM] .deciusmus
and he can't attract any talent because any fey that gives him alliegence can't go to the Twilight Court (which only happens every X years)


[12/26/2023 2:30 PM] rsulfuratus
I think the other question is what exactly Twlight's Grace is. I think that it is intentionally a small realm for ~reasons~


[12/26/2023 2:30 PM] rsulfuratus
but Ethlenn really is probably the "leader" in some vague fey sense of the whole western gulf


[12/26/2023 2:30 PM] rsulfuratus
i.e., I don't think "realm 4" is more powerful than Ethlenn, that doesn't feel quite right


[12/26/2023 2:30 PM] .deciusmus
No, definitley not


[12/26/2023 2:31 PM] .deciusmus
I didn't mean to imply that


[12/26/2023 2:31 PM] .deciusmus
Just powerful enough that Umbraeth doesn't dare start something


[12/26/2023 2:31 PM] .deciusmus
He definitley can't start anything with Ethlenn


[12/26/2023 2:31 PM] .deciusmus
i.e. he has no hope of conqueoring Twilight's Grace or really even harming it; he lives for small acts of venegance and revenge


[12/26/2023 2:32 PM] .deciusmus
For example, I imagine him trying to trick warlocks of Ethlenn to enter his realm, at which point they have violated the terms of the deal between him and Ethlenn by trepassing and lose her protection


[12/26/2023 2:34 PM] .deciusmus
Or he tries to trick someone into believing that the terms of his deal with Ethlenn extend to the Materiel Plane. Other things like that. He has no particular hope of mounting any kind of attack on her --- but she is also bound by their agreement and can't enter his realm


[12/26/2023 2:35 PM] rsulfuratus
Why does Ethlenn care about Tyrwingha? It seems like depending on the reason it would influence what she would be willing to give up to punish Umbreath


[12/26/2023 2:36 PM] rsulfuratus
e.g. this is all great but also is very much a "both Ethlenn and Umbreath see mortal servants as pawns" vibe


[12/26/2023 2:36 PM] rsulfuratus
which maybe is the right vibe


[12/26/2023 2:36 PM] rsulfuratus
I'm just not sure


[12/26/2023 2:37 PM] .deciusmus
So, the vibe I've been running for with Ethlenn is "beautiful wise faraway" - sort of Galadriel-equese


[12/26/2023 2:38 PM] .deciusmus
But definitely somewhat cavalier with mortals, in that she launched a bunch of PCs on various paths to try to ensure that they ended up in Cleenseau to stop an assassination attempt on Elaine


[12/26/2023 2:38 PM] .deciusmus
(and of course the PCs don't know this)


[12/26/2023 2:38 PM] rsulfuratus
right, but that feels more like a divine protector


[12/26/2023 2:38 PM] .deciusmus
But also she *cares a lot* about the Tyrwinghan royal family


[12/26/2023 2:38 PM] .deciusmus
for reasons I'm not totally clear on


[12/26/2023 2:39 PM] rsulfuratus
so to me that implies a different relationship with Umbreath. e.g., what if Umbreath tricks a prince of Tyrwingha into Duskmire


[12/26/2023 2:40 PM] rsulfuratus
on the other hand, fine if fey feel weird and illogical


[12/26/2023 2:40 PM] .deciusmus
meaning, what would she do if that happened?


[12/26/2023 2:40 PM] rsulfuratus
does she agree to deal that punishes mortals who enter duskmire?


[12/26/2023 2:40 PM] rsulfuratus
would she even propose that deal if she sees the mortals of tyrwingha as under her protection?


[12/26/2023 2:42 PM] .deciusmus
Hrm


[12/26/2023 2:43 PM] .deciusmus
A couple of possiblities come to mind...


[12/26/2023 2:45 PM] .deciusmus
(a) it could have been a mistake at some level, a failure of foresight and changing human conditions. Perhaps when she made the deal she didn't anticipate the relationship between Sembara and Tyrwingha (unclear if Umbraeth was exiled pre or post Drankorian deal)

(b) it could have been somewhat involuntary - there is this material of the "realm 3" that Umbraeth conqueored/defeated/something else. Perhaps Ethlenn saw a deal like this as the best of a bad set of options


[12/26/2023 2:45 PM] .deciusmus
(c) it could not apply to mortals -


[12/26/2023 2:45 PM] .deciusmus
(c) might actually work the best. The deal doesn't apply to mortals at all, Umbraeth just likes to try to trick them


[12/26/2023 2:50 PM] rsulfuratus
i kind of feel like Ethlenn's vibe is that she has protected Tyrwingha forever, basically


[12/26/2023 2:50 PM] .deciusmus
Yes


[12/26/2023 2:52 PM] rsulfuratus
so rather than fight with Umbreath starting as a fey conflict, what if it starts as Umbreath playing small tricks on mortals that she doesn't approve of?


[12/26/2023 2:52 PM] rsulfuratus
she kicks him out so he can't access Tyrwingha


[12/26/2023 2:53 PM] .deciusmus
I like that


[12/26/2023 2:54 PM] rsulfuratus
maybe in the beginning she's not even really mad at him, exactly, just disappointed / annoyed


[12/26/2023 2:54 PM] rsulfuratus
and this could also be the source of a lot of weird fey rumors in tyrinwingha


[12/26/2023 2:56 PM] rsulfuratus
so, a long time ago you have Twilight's Grace, which is kind of the center of power of the western gulf, and Ethlenn with this idiosyncratic wish to protect tyrwingha. but also a lot of power and seeing the other neighboring realms as basically vassals


[12/26/2023 2:56 PM] rsulfuratus
one of her rules is that you cannot mess with the mortals of tyrwingha


[12/26/2023 2:56 PM] rsulfuratus
Umbreath is high up in her court, maybe an important vassal, obviosly somewhat powerful


[12/26/2023 2:57 PM] rsulfuratus
but also chaotic in nature and can't resist the temptation to trick people sometimes


[12/26/2023 2:57 PM] rsulfuratus
Ethlenn finds out, and punishes him with exile


[12/26/2023 2:57 PM] rsulfuratus
perhaps there is a deal of sorts, she will let him live but no fey can go to his court if they wish to join the Twilight Court, etc, as you discussed


[12/26/2023 2:58 PM] .deciusmus
yeah that works


[12/26/2023 2:59 PM] rsulfuratus
she is bound by the promise so as he has gotten more cruel and violent over the years she can't just invade his realm


[12/26/2023 2:59 PM] .deciusmus
his realm probably starts quite small then, nestled between the Aurbez / Shimmersong, the Andonnne, the Darkwood, and the Enst


[12/26/2023 2:59 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah


[12/26/2023 2:59 PM] rsulfuratus
although it could also work for it to have originally just been the darkwood


[12/26/2023 2:59 PM] .deciusmus
huh, thats a good idea


[12/26/2023 2:59 PM] rsulfuratus
which perhap was "the darkwood" even as far back as the Drankorian empire


[12/26/2023 3:00 PM] rsulfuratus
I like that a lot actually


[12/26/2023 3:01 PM] .deciusmus
yeah, so he starts as Duskmire is just the darkwood


[12/26/2023 3:01 PM] rsulfuratus
right, and then over time he is the one who whever there is an opportunity, grabs territory


[12/26/2023 3:02 PM] rsulfuratus
I think the exact details don't matter much


[12/26/2023 3:02 PM] rsulfuratus
their is no reason to believe fey realms are particularly static


[12/26/2023 3:02 PM] rsulfuratus
although archfey rarely die they likely wax and wane in power


[12/26/2023 3:03 PM] rsulfuratus
I think Ethlenn has been a constant, of course, and Cloudspinner was for a while


[12/26/2023 3:03 PM] rsulfuratus
Ethlenn can't go after him directly because she agreed to a deal not to harm him or something


[12/26/2023 3:04 PM] .deciusmus
Sure, so his realm grows a bit here and there


[12/26/2023 3:04 PM] .deciusmus
I guess there doesn't even need to be a realm that falls


[12/26/2023 3:04 PM] .deciusmus
It could work to just have the relationship between them get worse and worse as he always takes the opportunity to expand


[12/26/2023 3:05 PM] .deciusmus
And the really only "major" thing that happens is the fey realm in the southern sentinels is disrupted at the end of the Great War, to be replaced with some empty terrority, which he takes and some "scary thing to the west"


[12/26/2023 3:06 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah I'd probably leave it a bit undetermined


[12/26/2023 3:07 PM] rsulfuratus
Amberglow in part is modeled after the Sandman's realm in the netflix series after he is imprisoned for a long time


[12/26/2023 3:07 PM] rsulfuratus
Cloudspinner is/was powerful enough that Amberglow is not conquered, it is empty / decaying


[12/26/2023 3:08 PM] rsulfuratus
but of course one can assume there were many smaller realms stretching between Amberglow and Twilight's Grace


[12/26/2023 3:08 PM] rsulfuratus
and with the fall of Amberglow, these are vunerable


[12/26/2023 3:08 PM] rsulfuratus
then, I do think there were serious disruptions around the time of the Great War


[12/26/2023 3:08 PM] rsulfuratus
Even Umbreath may not understand exactly what happened


[12/26/2023 3:08 PM] rsulfuratus
But, the west is now scary/dangerous


[12/26/2023 3:09 PM] rsulfuratus
And possibly Insigue mumble mumble something Beryl Rangers magic water mumble


[12/26/2023 3:10 PM] rsulfuratus
Shimmersong is a hard stop on westward expansion by Umbreath but he might not really care, and might even ally with Lightdancer sometimes to defeat incursions from "scary west thing"


[12/26/2023 3:11 PM] rsulfuratus
And, perhaps, Ethlenn never really cared much about the southwest - this was always somehow in the Cloudspinner's orbit - so she doesn't do anything after the fall of Amberglow


[12/26/2023 3:12 PM] .deciusmus


{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1189299659143925880/image.png?ex=678b625e&is=678a10de&hm=d8ac4c4630a98598d1a963f6cd546d8bde71b1273b33a1b48ec527b8181a55c9&


[12/26/2023 3:12 PM] rsulfuratus
But as Umbreath becomes more and more a thorn in her side she does make sure that ~fey realm in Sembara~ is not vulnerable


[12/26/2023 3:12 PM] .deciusmus
So the above has Shimmersong expanded a bit and then #1 is the original duskmire


[12/26/2023 3:13 PM] .deciusmus
1+2 is the minimum size of Duskmire now for game reasons. Open quesiton is whether it includes 3 (and it could go a little farther west, basically, until it stopped by the "scary thing")


[12/26/2023 3:14 PM] .deciusmus
Then north of Duskmire I think there are at probably 2 different realms, but the details don't matter too much. I was thinking about a Highlands-kingdom-northern realm full of human sized beasts, where all the animals talk


[12/26/2023 3:15 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah I think this makes sense


[12/26/2023 3:15 PM] rsulfuratus
the exact southern/western borders of Duskmire don't matter so much


[12/26/2023 3:16 PM] .deciusmus
But then there is probably also some other realm or realms  in the western gulf/sembara/tollen area that is twilight's grace ally/part of Ethlenns domain


[12/26/2023 3:16 PM] rsulfuratus
probably there is some buffer area around #3  but whether a full-fledged realm or just a kind of demilitarized zone could be unclear


[12/26/2023 3:17 PM] rsulfuratus
my feeling is expanding west and south would be easy for Duskmire since Ethlenn perhaps doesn't acre


[12/26/2023 3:17 PM] rsulfuratus
*care


[12/26/2023 3:17 PM] rsulfuratus
and e.g. what is now March of Andonne might have been a vassal of Amberglow or something


[12/26/2023 3:17 PM] .deciusmus
Right


[12/26/2023 3:18 PM] rsulfuratus
then Duskmire cannot expand further west because of the hard border with Shimmersong, but north open


[12/26/2023 3:19 PM] .deciusmus
Right, and the north is especially opened after the "whatever happened" during the fall of Cha'mutte


[12/26/2023 3:19 PM] rsulfuratus
exactly


[12/26/2023 3:19 PM] rsulfuratus
so that is presumably more recent


[12/26/2023 3:20 PM] .deciusmus
And so since the Great War Duskmire could have grown by 50% or something, pushing north


[12/26/2023 3:20 PM] .deciusmus
Which works perfectly, it makes Duskmire's overlap with Cleenseau recent, which is what I was after


[12/26/2023 3:20 PM] .deciusmus
What do you think of Twilight's Gate as the name for a militarized buffer realm


[12/26/2023 3:25 PM] rsulfuratus
sound a little too similar to Twilight's Grace for my taste


[12/26/2023 3:25 PM] rsulfuratus
but don't have strong feelings


[12/26/2023 3:25 PM] .deciusmus
Well, I was feeling like maybe a bit too similar


[12/26/2023 3:26 PM] rsulfuratus
could just be the Sunset Gate


[12/26/2023 3:26 PM] rsulfuratus
it is the line where the sun actually sets


[12/26/2023 3:26 PM] .deciusmus
I was envisioning an actual buffer realm, not just a line


[12/26/2023 3:26 PM] .deciusmus
But the whole realm could be called Sunset Gate


[12/26/2023 3:28 PM] rsulfuratus
Right


[12/26/2023 3:28 PM] rsulfuratus
Or, the buffer realm doesn’t need to be a realm really


[12/26/2023 3:28 PM] rsulfuratus
The Sunset Gate is the line Umbreath cannot pass due to the terms of his exile


[12/26/2023 3:29 PM] rsulfuratus
Various minor fey allies (strong but not archfey) of ethlenn occupy the sunward side to keep watch


[12/26/2023 3:30 PM] rsulfuratus
But it isn’t really a realm - there is no archfey in control


[12/26/2023 3:34 PM] .deciusmus
Basically, here is where I think we've landed on Duskmire....

Originally, it was the fey realm concurrent with the Darkwood, which has always been "the Darkwood" even in Drankorian times, for undetermined reasons. This realm was given to Umbraeth by Ethlenn as part of his exile, which is at an undetermined date, but predates Cloudspinner's imprisonment.

Once Cloudspinner is exiled, the opportunity arises to expand to the west, which Umbraeth eagerly does, until he reaches the fortified borders of Shimmersong in the west and the <unnamed Ulrich fey> to the north.

Then, when the Great War disrupts <unnamed Ulrich fey> he expands north as far as the Wistel, where he encounters another strong archfey, the <big talking animals fey>, and west, until he encounters <scary thing in the ruins of Ulrich fey>


[12/26/2023 3:35 PM] .deciusmus
The Sunset Gate runs basically due north from the westeren edge of the Darkwood - through Fellburn and then northward, and is a literal line Umbraeth cannot cross


[12/26/2023 3:35 PM] .deciusmus
(where the sun sets)


[12/26/2023 3:38 PM] .deciusmus
The lands sunward of the Sunset Gate (in the region labeled 3)  are not part of any domain, but there are several courts and castles of allies of Ethlenn. But this area is also especially treacherous. Time works even more strangely than usual, and without an archfey to bring order to the land, the line of the Sunset Gate is particularly unsettled, so the border between 2 and 3 is a big vague, and thus the eastern border of Duskmire is a bit vague


[12/26/2023 3:39 PM] rsulfuratus
yes, I like this


[12/26/2023 3:39 PM] rsulfuratus
are you going to copy it all to Obsidian?


[12/26/2023 3:39 PM] .deciusmus
yeah


[12/26/2023 3:40 PM] .deciusmus
Starting that now.




[12/26/2023 4:38 PM] .deciusmus
But I want to organize my feywild notes and then go pack, so..

{Reactions}
👍

[12/26/2023 4:39 PM] .deciusmus
(go pack, not go back..)


[12/28/2023 11:58 AM] .deciusmus
Some names because I don’t like random unnamed stuff—
For the ruined fey kingdom:
Farsight, Clearpeak, Diamond’s Facet, Sharpspire

For the beast-heavy place to the north: 
Nature’s Sanctuary, Beasthome, Nature’s Den, Nature’s Awakening


[12/28/2023 12:18 PM] .deciusmus
Sunset Gate: a line stretching from somewhere in Amberglow to somewhere in northern Sembara. It’s a line of materialized color - yellows and reds and oranges painted in the sky, but as these physical barriers - like paint brush strokes just sitting in the air, almost. The colors are physical and passing through them is impossible, by they are riddled with cracks and openings. In some places, these cracks are sharp and dangerous, and passing through has weird time effects - sometimes it takes a day or a year to walk through a crack. In other places, especially near Twilight’s Grace, there are elaborate structures


[12/28/2023 12:19 PM] .deciusmus
Since Amberglow fell it’s been even odder and weirder and the time effects worse and less predictable. And sometimes dark clouds race along the colors, blotting them out and bringing especial danger as it’s hard to even tell where the edges are


[12/28/2023 12:24 PM] .deciusmus
Where it passes through Duskmire, near the Darkwood, Umbraeth has chiseled and chipped tried to tear it down, but it has grown back as a tangled maze of angry reds and oranges, like sharp glass. It’s especially difficult to pass and this has lead to the Darkwood, despite being the original heart of Umbraeths domain, now somewhat different


[12/29/2023 10:20 AM] .deciusmus
I’m moving on from feywild to the sembaran impacts of the “undead plague” that’s happening right now in 1720. I might tweak some borders and sizes of baronies, I assume you aren’t committed to anything specific here


[12/29/2023 12:13 PM] rsulfuratus
Not committed to anything specific re: semabaran borders


[12/29/2023 1:53 PM] rsulfuratus
I like the Sunset Gate a lot


[12/29/2023 1:54 PM] rsulfuratus
Sharpshire is good for the ruined fey kingdom


[12/29/2023 1:55 PM] rsulfuratus
Not really hugely a fan of any of the beast names. Also, what were the imagined borders of this place? This is overlapping the bulk of Sembara?


[12/29/2023 2:45 PM] .deciusmus
I didn’t love those names either. As far as the place I imagine it more overlapping with highland kingdoms and eastern sembara. Western sembara is probably allies of Ethlenn or something


[12/29/2023 2:46 PM] .deciusmus
Oops, reverse that. Western sembara


[12/29/2023 2:51 PM] .deciusmus
So from west to east the fey realms in sembara are:
Far west - remains of Sharpspire north of that animal-place
Then Duskmire, again with the animalplace north of it.


[12/29/2023 2:51 PM] .deciusmus
Then the sunset gate - outside any particular realm - with undetermined realm north of that.
The.


[12/29/2023 2:51 PM] .deciusmus
Then twilights Grace


[12/29/2023 2:57 PM] .deciusmus
When I’m back at my computer I’ll send a map


[12/29/2023 3:16 PM] .deciusmus
But at a high level I’m envisioning a animal fey kingdom over the highlands, bordering Duskmire to the north, and something else over Embry / heartlands, north of sunset gate and the various “non-realm” ethlenn allies


[12/29/2023 3:43 PM] rsulfuratus
is the animal place relevant to duskmire? or just an idea for something that could be north of duskmire and would prevent duskmire from expanding?


[12/29/2023 3:44 PM] .deciusmus
Just an idea


[12/29/2023 3:44 PM] .deciusmus
I liked the idea of a fey place that is focused on talking animals and such


[12/29/2023 9:53 PM] .deciusmus
Basically what I was thinking was this:

{Attachments}
https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1059870250440593520/1190487875335229440/feywild.png?ex=678bc07b&is=678a6efb&hm=0da029557ec20dca3cecee4a4534c766bf639f4cc3d176ed9c1ad3f347dea039&


[12/29/2023 9:57 PM] .deciusmus
where:
D = Duskmire
S = Sharpspire, now a dangerous mystery
Orange line = Sunset Gate
A = small allied fey to Ethlynn but not part of any realm
B = nature/beast place

Although the exact line between A and B is a bit random, and B is a bit undefined

[1/2/2024 10:29 PM] rsulfuratus
reading your letters now


[1/2/2024 10:35 PM] rsulfuratus
I'm not sure that Amberglow would ever have extended as far north as Cleenseau


[1/2/2024 10:36 PM] rsulfuratus
feywild geography is not a perfect match for material plane geography - but even so that would make amberglow very big


[1/2/2024 10:36 PM] .deciusmus
I didn't mean to imply it did


[1/2/2024 10:36 PM] .deciusmus
where did you get that from?


[1/2/2024 10:36 PM] .deciusmus
Vahavia's report?


[1/2/2024 10:36 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah


[1/2/2024 10:37 PM] .deciusmus
They would not have thought that this was Amberglow, just contrasting it to a more pleasant fey place


[1/2/2024 10:37 PM] rsulfuratus
ah - in that case I would think he'd refer to Dreamhaven


[1/2/2024 10:37 PM] rsulfuratus
I mean it is kind of a meaningless detail


[1/2/2024 10:38 PM] rsulfuratus
but of course pre Great War the elves of Ainuymara would have relatively close contact with Dreamhaven


[1/2/2024 10:38 PM] .deciusmus
Right, I was thinking the elves of Rostare might have had a connect to Amberglow. Might just drop it though, my players have no idea what any of these realms mean


[1/2/2024 10:38 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah


[1/2/2024 10:38 PM] .deciusmus
wait, I also confused myself


[1/2/2024 10:38 PM] rsulfuratus
Vahaiya is not from Rostare - that was gone long before they were born


[1/2/2024 10:38 PM] .deciusmus
Ignore Rostare above, that not from the Vahaiya letter, it was in the drankor stuff


[1/2/2024 10:39 PM] rsulfuratus
you also have Marcel de Valarin dying in 1658, which is before the Vahaiya letter


[1/2/2024 10:39 PM] .deciusmus
oops


[1/2/2024 10:39 PM] .deciusmus
I should fix his death date


[1/2/2024 10:39 PM] .deciusmus
it isn't canonical, just tossed in


[1/2/2024 10:41 PM] rsulfuratus
in 'An Excerpt from On Creation and Destruction of Extra-Material Realms' I would change Rostare to Orenlas


[1/2/2024 10:42 PM] rsulfuratus
Rostare is really far away - like 2000 miles from Tyrwingha


[1/2/2024 10:42 PM] rsulfuratus
whereas Orenlas is immediately next door and would be concerned with the fey in their neighborhood


[1/2/2024 10:42 PM] .deciusmus
Ah, for some reason I thought it was close to Drankor


[1/2/2024 10:42 PM] .deciusmus
but yeah, makes sense


[1/2/2024 10:42 PM] rsulfuratus
it is close to drankor. drankor is 2000 miles from Tyrwingha


[1/2/2024 10:42 PM] .deciusmus
I guess Drankor is really far away


[1/2/2024 10:45 PM] .deciusmus
BTW, I think what ultimately caused the rift between Ethlenn and Umbraeth was his tendency to trick humans into the Feywild either to be his servants, or even to be ensorcelled by other fey outside of Twiligt's Grace, or just for giggles to be left somewhere dangerous to die


[1/2/2024 10:45 PM] rsulfuratus
i like that


[1/2/2024 10:46 PM] .deciusmus
She probably tolerates some amount of fey-being-fey around humans, but violating the refuge she extended to Tyrwinghans to come to the Feywild is unforgiveable


[1/2/2024 10:47 PM] rsulfuratus
other than those comments I think the letters and books are fine. i removed the status/tim and pushed but didn't make other changes so assume you'll make small edits as discussed / clean up


[1/2/2024 10:47 PM] .deciusmus
yup


[1/2/2024 10:47 PM] .deciusmus
I rewrote the Amberglow line to just talk about stories of "realms"


[1/2/2024 10:47 PM] .deciusmus
unnamed


[1/2/2024 10:48 PM] rsulfuratus
oh, one other thing - I'm not actually sure how closely related demi-planes and fey / shadowfell domains are. i might remove the mention of demiplanes from the drankor book since it seems unnecessary game-wise to link them
