
[11/4/2023 9:13 AM] rsulfuratus
looking at your Cleenseau doc - making me think I probably need to try to sketch out a definitive history of the Great War based on what I can remember / find of actual campaign history from the 90s, plus some retcons inventions as needed. a key question is did the hobgoblin army that sacked insigue (nee irebor) reach sembara, and if so how deep did they penetrate?


[11/4/2023 9:14 AM] .deciusmus
My dim recollection from high school was that Sembara was a "base of operations" that never was heavily invaded


[11/4/2023 9:15 AM] rsulfuratus
yeah that was my thinking as well - I seem to recall a race basically to kill cha'mutte before he could ~do something mysterious~ to knock out the sembaran army


[11/4/2023 9:15 AM] rsulfuratus
there was a war council and i have a bunch of notes somewhere with troop strengths basically for the southern sembaran army


[11/4/2023 9:16 AM] .deciusmus
i.e. i found this
https://1drv.ms/w/s!AoW_8CZoqZqT4WezUj1V7agbHyY0?e=aw0DUF

{Embed}
https://1drv.ms/w/s!AoW_8CZoqZqT4WezUj1V7agbHyY0?e=aw0DUF
Information-Beryl.docx
Microsoft Word Document
https://images-ext-1.discordapp.net/external/drQolbsGkRaaEK_kIfl32-rNuvtbt9xLW5jV-4AfFxk/https/p.sfx.ms/icons/v2/Large/Doc.png


[11/4/2023 9:16 AM] .deciusmus
The main thrust was in the north, according to that


[11/4/2023 9:18 AM] .deciusmus
https://1drv.ms/w/s!AoW_8CZoqZqT4VpC7UxkV8t8_cjZ?e=lBccvt

{Embed}
https://1drv.ms/w/s!AoW_8CZoqZqT4VpC7UxkV8t8_cjZ?e=lBccvt
Sembian Armies.docx
Microsoft Word Document
https://images-ext-1.discordapp.net/external/drQolbsGkRaaEK_kIfl32-rNuvtbt9xLW5jV-4AfFxk/https/p.sfx.ms/icons/v2/Large/Doc.png


[11/4/2023 9:20 AM] rsulfuratus
right, that is why you and cha'mutte were in urlich in the first place


[11/4/2023 9:24 AM] rsulfuratus
i think looking back at what notes I can easily the intetion was that cha'mutte created the plague to cut dunmar off from sembara, but then on his death is spread somewhat and destroyed the hobgoblin army that had sacked isingue and was threatened sembara's southern borders.


[11/4/2023 9:24 AM] rsulfuratus
there was also a whole thing about the lich king of Vasa (now Vostok) that seems like it should just mostly be tossed





[11/5/2023 8:36 PM] .deciusmus
btw, I was wondering if we should retcon the Urlich to be a pass not a monastery, or at least make the monastery secret/mystical rather than something people talk about


[11/5/2023 8:37 PM] .deciusmus
(maybe it was always secret?)


[11/5/2023 8:37 PM] rsulfuratus
i mean it was lifted straight out of a dungeon magazine adventure, which I think we played, and then I just reused the location for the final battle


[11/5/2023 8:38 PM] rsulfuratus
I don't remember much lore about why there was a monastery in a pass or whether the monasety was secret or not


[11/5/2023 8:38 PM] rsulfuratus
but very easily could just be ulrich pass


[11/5/2023 8:38 PM] rsulfuratus
oh maybe there was some connection to the dwarven firstborn and the underground adventure to the proto-heart of the mountain?


[11/5/2023 8:39 PM] rsulfuratus
that would imply secret


[11/5/2023 8:39 PM] .deciusmus
I think Ulrich Pass should be what people talk about, that's where the huge battle was. The "monastery" was obviously a real place of some sort (the final battle is one of the few things I remember really clearly from the high school game) but I think it should be a bit secret and maybe not really a monastry. If I recall it was some mystical place where the firstborn were more connected to taelgar or something


[11/5/2023 8:40 PM] rsulfuratus
i am happy with urlich pass, and the Battle of Urlich Pass as the final battle of the Great War


[11/5/2023 8:41 PM] rsulfuratus
the monastery could just be an [[extraplanar weak point]] to the divine realm, historically protected by the dwarves or something like that. it is destroyed now anyway so the history isn't super important


[11/5/2023 8:41 PM] .deciusmus
Although remember there was also a big battle at High Horn


[11/5/2023 8:42 PM] rsulfuratus
I don't remember High Horn at all


[11/5/2023 8:42 PM] .deciusmus
I didn't really remember it until I started digging through high school stuff on one drive


[11/5/2023 8:44 PM] rsulfuratus
I think one of your players in an abortive taelgar campaign you started in college was from there or something?


[11/5/2023 8:44 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah


[11/5/2023 8:45 PM] .deciusmus
But also, I think the big battle was not actually at Ulrich, although retconning it to be there is fine. I think we went south from the big battle to have the secondary mystical battle at the monastery


[11/5/2023 8:45 PM] rsulfuratus
i guess i think people would have seen the massive magical battle against the giant shadow dragon


[11/5/2023 8:46 PM] rsulfuratus
it could be the Battle of High Horn and the Battle of Urlich Pass are considered two separate events


[11/5/2023 8:46 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, it is more satisfying to have had it taking place in the sky above the huge battle


[11/5/2023 8:46 PM] rsulfuratus
with the Battle of Urlich Pass being you all gainst Cha'mutte


[11/5/2023 8:46 PM] .deciusmus
High Horn doesn't really exist anywyay


[11/5/2023 8:46 PM] .deciusmus
It would I guess by somewhere in Ardlas or so


[11/5/2023 8:47 PM] .deciusmus
But that's currently envisioned as a place where there are no passes over the mountains, instead humans traded with dwarves who traded with humans on the other side


[11/5/2023 8:48 PM] rsulfuratus
right, I see it on the map


[11/5/2023 8:48 PM] rsulfuratus
let's just retcon it away

{Reactions}
üëç

[11/5/2023 8:49 PM] .deciusmus
Although it would suit the narrative history of Sembara if the highland kingdoms felt like the fought a thankless and costly unacknowledged war


[11/5/2023 8:50 PM] rsulfuratus
that could also work - it isn't really acknowledged as the key battle of the war


[11/5/2023 8:50 PM] .deciusmus
The Sembaran armies massed at Ulrich Pass to stop the "main advance" of the hobgoblins from the west, and were the heroes who stood in the shadows of the actual heroes, and it becomes this whole myth-making thing


[11/5/2023 8:51 PM] .deciusmus
Well all this time, the highland kingdoms bled with the dwarves in the north, with no real support, and if they hadn't been there the Sembaran armies wouldn't have had a home to come back to


[11/5/2023 8:53 PM] .deciusmus
Which actually works well with both the notes I have from highschool (that Sembaran "north armies" were weaker and less well supported) and the latter history


[11/5/2023 8:54 PM] .deciusmus
When the hobgoblins attack Ardlas in the 1560s and Sembara still doesn't send aid, its the last straw, and causes these diplomatic breaks.


