

[11/28/2023 10:03 PM] .deciusmus
I think the orcs should be an archivist and a brawler


[11/28/2023 10:08 PM] rsulfuratus
are you imaging orcs as never had families, families died in war, leaving behind grown kids?


[11/28/2023 10:08 PM] rsulfuratus
kind of thinking maybe the archivist never had a family, the brawler lost family in war and so is finally willing to travel with sister


[11/28/2023 10:09 PM] .deciusmus
I was envisioning a tragic story of some kind for one of them, less sure about the other


[11/28/2023 10:09 PM] .deciusmus
but perhaps actually it is more interesting to invert the stereotype and basically make them empty nesters


[11/28/2023 10:10 PM] .deciusmus
or at least one of them


[11/28/2023 10:10 PM] .deciusmus
I don't know much about orc family life, or lifespan


[11/28/2023 10:10 PM] .deciusmus
how old is 50?


[11/28/2023 10:15 PM] .deciusmus
but I'm thinking something like... some tragedy in their youth, lost parents, became very close, archivist married into a large, boisterious, happy family, brawler more reserved and introverted and never had kids but was an aunt, archivist in her late 30s became passionate about the history of her in-laws, who were perhaps a significant in the longer history of the people of the rainbow

many of the family were soliders in the late war, but miraclously, none of them died, which the archivist took to be a sign (from? I guess these orcs don't really like gods.. need to think about that a bit) that she should go looking for stories, brawler is thrilled, has always secretly prefered having her sister to herself


[11/28/2023 10:21 PM] rsulfuratus
orc lifespan roughly human conditional on surviving to 30


[11/28/2023 10:21 PM] rsulfuratus
most non-free orcs die before 30 from war/famine/violence


[11/28/2023 10:21 PM] rsulfuratus
(i guess not famine actually, orcs can survive on almost any food)


[11/28/2023 10:21 PM] rsulfuratus
so age structure of free orcs probably fairly similar to humans


[11/28/2023 10:22 PM] rsulfuratus
although i imagine a much more bimodal family size - not many with 1 kid, but lots with 0 and lots with 5


[11/28/2023 10:22 PM] rsulfuratus
i have always imagined a significant minority of free orcs would be wary of having kids because they don't fully trust thark won't somehow get them


[11/28/2023 10:23 PM] rsulfuratus
and another significant minority would have *lots* of kids because they *do* trust thark wont get them


[11/28/2023 10:23 PM] .deciusmus
I seem to remember that chained-and-freed-after birth orcs have a hard time of it?


[11/28/2023 10:23 PM] rsulfuratus
yes


[11/28/2023 10:23 PM] rsulfuratus
depends on age they are freed


[11/28/2023 10:24 PM] rsulfuratus
murook was freed very late, as a teenager or close to it, which would be quite unusual


[11/28/2023 10:25 PM] rsulfuratus
but the freed-after-birth orcs would be very unlikely to leave Xurkhaz


[11/28/2023 10:26 PM] .deciusmus
how's this.

Nurzkar and Aygul are 51 years old, born near Gorzum oasis, to relatively poor farmers. Their parents were both born chained orcs and both struggle. In their father, this manifests as nightmares, weeks sometimes in bed with migraines. In their mother, who was freed when she was 8, this manifests as violent outbursts, where she often has to be restrained. Despite this, the parents are fervant believers in Xurkhaz and envision there salvation will be in their children, born free and unchained and untouched by Thark.


[11/28/2023 10:27 PM] .deciusmus
The twins are born first, then their three siblings, soon after. However, tragedy strikes when the twins are 8. They are at this point old enough to help out on the farm, and one afternoon when their father can't work due to his headaches, their mother goes into a rage and kills the three younger children.


[11/28/2023 10:28 PM] .deciusmus
This dissolves the family - both parents are wracked with guilt, and the twins are fostered out


[11/28/2023 10:29 PM] .deciusmus
(Perhaps the mother is punished, but I have to think there is some understanding and management of chained orcs, anyway the details there are not important to our story)


[11/28/2023 10:30 PM] .deciusmus
The twins grow close to each other in this time, both responding to the tragedy in different ways. Nurzkar wants to **understand**. How are orcs chained? Where did her parents come from (all she knows it that they are from the same horde). Aygul, on the other hand, just wants to learn to defend herself. She never wants to be in the position where someone else can hurt her


[11/28/2023 10:31 PM] .deciusmus
They bounce around orcish society for a while, eventually growing into adults. Nurzkar is the more outgoing one, and ends up meeting <some name>, the 8th son of a large family who proudly traces their lineage back 10 generations


[11/28/2023 10:32 PM] .deciusmus
They marry, have kids, and Nurzkar becomes fascinated by the histories her adoptive family tells


[11/28/2023 10:33 PM] rsulfuratus
this sounds great so far


[11/28/2023 10:33 PM] rsulfuratus
talking to kate about her dwarf smith so will check in in a bit


[11/28/2023 10:34 PM] .deciusmus
Nurzkar and her husband have a large family, the youngest of whom is an oldish teenage when Grash attacks


[11/28/2023 10:34 PM] .deciusmus
Much of the family ends up in war - by this time they are living in the capital and have some moderately promiment position


[11/28/2023 10:38 PM] .deciusmus
Nurzkar and Aygul both worry -- Aygul perhaps even joins up, despite being a bit on the older side, she is wiry and skilled with weapons and unarmed combat techniques. Both worry about the end of their people. 

Nurzkar, for much of her life, has felt like she could be doing more. The drive to learn/understand/help the chained orcs, and find more orcs to unchain/more People of the Rainbow who are lost kept being put aside due to the basic joy of her life, and the busy-ness of raising a family, etc


[11/28/2023 10:38 PM] .deciusmus
But something happens during the conflict with Grash - my original idea was a prayer but that doesn't really make sense here -- that inspires her to rededicate herself to this childhood dream of learning how Thark chains people and finding others


[11/28/2023 10:39 PM] .deciusmus
So when a flying ship appears, looking for a loremaster and archivist, and willing to carry her around the known world, with her limp and bad eyesight, she jumps


[11/28/2023 10:40 PM] .deciusmus
Her sister is eager to go with her -- Aygul has always been the type who would have gone into the world, but she would not leave her sister, even though her sister kept talking about exploring/looking for stories/etc


[11/28/2023 10:40 PM] .deciusmus
need to tweak a bit but the basic idea is Nurzkar is leaving behind a happy family, Aygul is more of a loner


[11/28/2023 10:45 PM] rsulfuratus
There is a group, called the Hezguli, that is kind of like AA for orcs freed after birth. Murook is an unofficial leader. Orcs that have trouble adjusting, or end up in situations like this, would typically end up living with the Hezguli under their supervision


[11/28/2023 10:46 PM] rsulfuratus
Xurkhaz was founded in 1583 when Uzgash found the cloak, so the timing would be good for the proud family to trace their lineage back to the founders of Xurkhaz


[11/28/2023 10:47 PM] .deciusmus
Right that’s perfect. The mother goes to live with the Hezguli and the father is left to raise them but his headaches and depression really don’t get better and they basically raise themselves


[11/28/2023 10:48 PM] rsulfuratus
Orcs fundamentally think gods are evil, but of course Riswynn will have changed many minds recently. I'd probably make it basically she is inspired by Riswynn


[11/28/2023 10:50 PM] rsulfuratus
Faldrak is already the "has a limp and is obviously old character", I think the orc hook is enough to be looking for storie without needing to have the limp and bad eyesight too.


[11/28/2023 10:51 PM] .deciusmus
To add, the father each morning gets up and thanks the miracle of the cloak, because this is better. Having a wife who kills 3 of your kids- better than being chained. Having crushing headaches and nightmares 2-3 times a week? Better than being chained.


[11/28/2023 10:51 PM] .deciusmus
Sure


[11/28/2023 10:53 PM] rsulfuratus
can also be a fey connection, or at least a loose one  - "the miracle of the cloak" isn't precisely a miracle, it was a gift from Cloudspinner, an archfey, but it was given as a reward, a boon that was earned (why exactly is not really currently known)


[11/28/2023 10:54 PM] rsulfuratus
so I think the orcs of Xurkhaz especially would, to the extent they have any sort of prayers, it would be to thank their ancestors who earned the boon of a fey


[11/28/2023 10:54 PM] rsulfuratus
so maybe not really a fey connection so much as almost a kind of ancestor worship


[11/28/2023 10:55 PM] .deciusmus
I am envisioning the father more directly thanking the leaders of Xurkhaz


[11/28/2023 10:55 PM] rsulfuratus
right, yes, that would definitely make sense


[11/28/2023 10:57 PM] rsulfuratus
i think it would generally be understood that it is hard, and sometimes dangerous work, to maintain the safe borders of Xurkhaz and the chiefs of Xurkhaz are very much not stay at home kings and queens - they literally have to walk the entire borders of the country over the course of their reign


