
[2/1/2024 5:54 PM] rsulfuratus
i think in terms of actual metaphysics both transitions are potentially fraught


[2/1/2024 6:00 PM] rsulfuratus
but it is probably the case that the small gods of the northern folk religions (which also probably represent the original human religious tradition, more or less) actually do have more desire/capacity to shepherd souls, as they have always seemed more physically real than the more archetypal gods (mos numena, kaikkea)


[2/1/2024 6:01 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah. I assume that both transitions are technically fraught, but that the religious traditions developed in part because the gods actually do (mostly) do the things people think they do


[2/1/2024 6:02 PM] rsulfuratus
well there is probably something of a feedback loop as well


[2/1/2024 6:03 PM] .deciusmus
It seems wrong to me that Drankor or Sembara would develop a totally false belief that the gods handle the sheparding of the soul into the land of the dead, if there wasn't some real truth to it.

I mean, presumably the reason all this stuff happens is because a group of humans with no death traditions at all, who just didn't bother, would in fact by plagued by ghosts and the like


[2/1/2024 6:04 PM] rsulfuratus
sure


[2/1/2024 6:10 PM] rsulfuratus
i think that the basic idea is that the gods do the best they can but are fundamentally not omnipotent outside their own realms. 

death traditions are a way of amplifying the gods power and filling in gaps, in a sense.


[2/1/2024 6:12 PM] rsulfuratus
but also different gods have different strengths in some metaphysical sense. the small gods are, well, small, and so there is some sense that an individual god actually reaches into the land of the dead and follows/protects souls on the journey. but they don't have a lot of power on the material plane. 

mos numena has a lot of power so easier to protect the transition to the land of the dead, but then have a bit less influence, etc


[2/1/2024 6:12 PM] rsulfuratus
none of this set in stone, just noodling a bit


[2/1/2024 6:13 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, I like the direction


[2/1/2024 6:16 PM] rsulfuratus
the general religious history idea is basically you start with small gods that are somewhat weak individually but which can intecede with arhat and malik on your behalf, but they are kind of like a personal protector. so if they can find your soul they can protect it. 

then you have kind of a variety of transitional forms, eventually culmunating in urban Hkar tradition that becomes mos numena, where the gods are these strong, powerful archetypes, with tons of power to grant miracles, but much less personal.



[2/2/2024 1:37 PM] rsulfuratus
i pushed a religious history of taelgar brainstorming page that tries to centralize some of the strands/ideas about development of human religion on hkar and the impact on extant religious traditions


[2/2/2024 1:52 PM] .deciusmus
I really like that as a general history. It seems to pull together the metaphysical underpinings of a lot of the strains of thought elsewhere and feels like it fits pretty well


[2/2/2024 1:54 PM] .deciusmus
I like the idea that Mos Numena develops by basically the process of re-definition of other gods as archetypes of a "bigger" god, which is a good explanation for how it becomes dominant


[2/2/2024 1:55 PM] .deciusmus
Somewhat unclear is an answer to how demons, devils, celestials, etc came into being


[2/2/2024 1:56 PM] .deciusmus
There is the early idea (i.e. that Thandros expressed when we were hunting the gnolls) that human belief in hell created hell, but the mechanism of how it works in the context of the broad sweep of religious history is a little unclear


[2/2/2024 2:02 PM] rsulfuratus
i think on the one hand, this probably doesn't need a strictly canonical answer, there can be lots of ideas floating around in-game


[2/2/2024 2:02 PM] .deciusmus
Yeah, I didn't mean to suggest we need a strictly canonical answer


[2/2/2024 2:03 PM] .deciusmus
What  I really like about the doc you wrote is it provides a pretty solid working history which can be refered to make new things "fit" without being precisely prespective


[2/2/2024 2:03 PM] rsulfuratus
however, i was trying to also set up the thread of the outer planes with the idea that, until the development of early pantheonic religions, there is no conception of gods having a home in the spiritual realms


[2/2/2024 2:03 PM] rsulfuratus
they are manifestations of divine energy and conduits of divine energy that exist on the material plane


[2/2/2024 2:03 PM] rsulfuratus
but, that doesn't mean that no spiritual realms exist in this era


[2/2/2024 2:03 PM] .deciusmus
But in that context, I was noting that it doesn't help much with the worldbuilding challenge of "what's the background of this demon"


[2/2/2024 2:04 PM] .deciusmus
Right. That makes sense, although I'm not sure I got it from the page


[2/2/2024 2:05 PM] rsulfuratus
i think this could be fleshed out more but one challenge is that i'm not sure what outer planes should exist in taelgar


[2/2/2024 2:06 PM] rsulfuratus
canonically we have nine hells, abyss, pandemonium, arborea, and an unnamed prison dimension from the philosopher's guild note about the binding stones


[2/2/2024 2:06 PM] rsulfuratus
(in addition to the realms of the gods)


[2/2/2024 2:07 PM] rsulfuratus
but there could and probably will be more


[2/2/2024 2:08 PM] .deciusmus
This is where I feel like metaphysics helps. I feel like the fairly well-established metaphysics of the human religions helps clarify, for example, what the "right answer" is to an in-game question about what's going on at abandoned kestavo shrine that appears to be haunted.


[2/2/2024 2:09 PM] .deciusmus
There doesn't need to be a deep and firm set of rules, but the skeleton makes it a lot easier to make up a consistent answer.


[2/2/2024 2:09 PM] .deciusmus
I feel like that is kinda missing from the outer realms


[2/2/2024 2:09 PM] .deciusmus
Not saying it has to be created now or anything, but its a gap in the Taelgar-ian metaphysics


[2/2/2024 2:11 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, agreed. i kind of feel like it needs a bit more in-game exposure before it can be consolidated into metaphysics, though. 2025 is likely to involve a huge amount of extraplanar exploration in game so an answer might become clearer in 18 months


[2/2/2024 2:12 PM] .deciusmus
I was about to say something similar, but with the added point that I'm pretty confident our game will get to outer plane stuff somewhat / long before my game does


[2/2/2024 2:13 PM] .deciusmus
I expect to eventually be doing a fair bit with the Far Realms and weird abberations and stuff, but we are averaging ~10 sessions/year (6-7 hour in person sessions, so about twice the length of a DuFr session) so its probably more like late 2025/2026 (when we get to the last arc of my game)


[2/2/2024 2:15 PM] rsulfuratus
the far realms feels easier in a way since they are explicitly weird and alien and in some ways it is probably better if there isn't obvious rules or metaphysics that one can derive


[2/2/2024 2:15 PM] .deciusmus
That is also true


[2/2/2024 2:15 PM] .deciusmus
Although just because the danger is on the far realm doesn't mean that the solution isn't somewhere else


[2/2/2024 2:16 PM] rsulfuratus
true. 

separately though, i do think one more obvious question that is raised by the history i've sketched out and might be easier to answer now is what happens to the souls of Deno'qai, Zimka, etc. since the small gods don't inhabit spiritual realms, where do they go?


[2/2/2024 2:17 PM] rsulfuratus
probably this is the same answer as where do the souls of people who died before the development of pantheonic religions go


[2/2/2024 2:17 PM] rsulfuratus
one obvious option is reincarnation, but i'm not sure that is correct


[2/2/2024 2:17 PM] .deciusmus
I actually liked your answer of "beyond the veil"


[2/2/2024 2:17 PM] .deciusmus
Is there a need for a canonical answer?


[2/2/2024 2:18 PM] rsulfuratus
i guess probably not


[2/2/2024 2:18 PM] .deciusmus
I guess there are some implications, i.e. to Speak with Dead, Ressurection


[2/2/2024 2:18 PM] .deciusmus
if the soul is reincarnated, do those even work?


[2/2/2024 2:18 PM] rsulfuratus
not so much speak with dead which doesn't summon the soul back to the body


[2/2/2024 2:18 PM] rsulfuratus
but yes ressurcetion would be impacted


[2/2/2024 2:18 PM] .deciusmus
Right, I guess speak with dead just animates the body to speak its experiences


[2/2/2024 2:19 PM] .deciusmus
I think it is best if there isn't one specific answer


[2/2/2024 2:20 PM] .deciusmus
I definitely don't think the Zimka believe in reincarnation, and I think in general in Taelgar most religious beliefs should align at least somewhat with metaphysical truths. But it seems useful to have enough flexibility in the metaphysics that a culture where reincarnation is true could exist (although it would probably have to be a small gods culture)


[2/2/2024 2:21 PM] .deciusmus
Perhaps the soul manifests where it goes


[2/2/2024 2:22 PM] rsulfuratus
i would actually argue the opposite. a religion where souls are reincarnated would likely be a pantheonic religion where, rather than creating souls out of whatever to give people life, the gods send back souls in their domain


[2/2/2024 2:22 PM] .deciusmus
^ yeah, fair point. That could certainly work as well


[2/2/2024 2:22 PM] .deciusmus
But I was thinking of an ancestory worshipping, small gods religion where each soul is carried from the land of the dead to a new birth


[2/2/2024 2:23 PM] .deciusmus
directly


[2/2/2024 2:23 PM] rsulfuratus
i think the "default" metaphysics is that it is a one way journey, where souls are created out of ~divinity~ somehow (left completely mysterious) and then return to ~divinity~ in some way after passing through the land of the dead, but there is a lot of flexibilty for belief and for deities to reshape this


[2/2/2024 2:24 PM] .deciusmus
How does this relate to the [[Plane of Souls]]/Plane of Consicousness?


[2/2/2024 2:25 PM] rsulfuratus
not entirely clear, although [[plane of souls]] is some kind of manifestation of living souls only


[2/2/2024 2:25 PM] .deciusmus
Right


[2/2/2024 2:25 PM] rsulfuratus
it is basically the psionic equivalent of the plane of magic in some sense


[2/2/2024 2:25 PM] rsulfuratus
but fully on the "material plane" side of the land of the dead


[2/2/2024 2:26 PM] .deciusmus
right


[2/2/2024 2:28 PM] rsulfuratus
i think the distinction between primal realms and divine realms in my notes is kind of obselete. the basic idea is that the spiritual realms are divided into the proximate realms (dreamworld, [[plane of souls]], astral plane, whatever else) and the outer planes, and those are divided by the land of the dead


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] rsulfuratus
i haven't quite worked out the metaphysics of like astral projection and such, and whether you can actually reach the outer planes from the astral plane, etc


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] .deciusmus
where does primal magic come from?


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] rsulfuratus
and in some sense the [[plane of souls]], astral plane, and the dreamworld might all be kind of part of the same metaphysical thing


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] rsulfuratus
the material plane


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] .deciusmus
right, ok


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] .deciusmus
makes sense


[2/2/2024 2:29 PM] rsulfuratus
primal magic is the echoes of the riving


[2/2/2024 2:31 PM] rsulfuratus
there is probably also a connection with fey magic to an extent, since metaphysically the echo realms (shadowfell, feywild, mirror realm so far) are effectively part of the material plane


[2/2/2024 2:32 PM] rsulfuratus
at some point someone will play a druid and i'll flesh some of this out in more detail


[2/2/2024 2:33 PM] rsulfuratus
although actually so far everyone who has played a druid has just basically played a nature cleric with their magic as flavored as coming from gods, no one has actually played a metaphyiscally primal magic user


[2/2/2024 2:33 PM] rsulfuratus
maybe i need to introduce a druid npc for a bit


[2/2/2024 2:34 PM] .deciusmus
Right, I was going to say one of my players in the Ausson's Crossing miniseries played a dwarven druid, but he decided his magic came from the Baharazel


[2/2/2024 2:34 PM] .deciusmus
Where did Kyr's magic come from? Wasn't he "druidish"


[2/2/2024 2:35 PM] .deciusmus
You need a human druid


[2/2/2024 2:36 PM] .deciusmus
Alternatively, why does the (somewhat odd) D&D rule of primal magic actually have to exist in Taelgar? It isn't crazy to think that all magic is either divine or arcane, and a druid player basically chooses whether they are ultimately channeling the plane of magic or divine magi


[2/2/2024 2:38 PM] rsulfuratus
yeah, maybe. kyr's magic eventually ended up coming from the [[Plane of Souls|plane of consciousness]] in some sense, although metaphysics have shifted a bit since then


