_GMBINDER:_ [https://www.gmbinder.com/documents/edit/-LtFg6GJLYThfAVQlu80](https://www.gmbinder.com/documents/edit/-LtFg6GJLYThfAVQlu80)  
_“Arha created the third-born, a race dwelling under the mountains, the Dwarves. They were made from the roots of the earth, stoic and enduring, shaped from the solid rock and earth of their homes underground. They were numerous and prosperous, honorable and courageous.  Yet even they could not escape Malik's evil. He made them set in their ways, honorable yet hidebound, slow to forgive or understand others, and so the race was sundered."_  
_—Tales of Creation, from the Scrolls of the Divine_  
Deep in the mountains, a glittering hall of crystal and light, enchanted with glowing runes. The echoes of hammers and picks delving for silver, forging iron and steel; and the slow tap-tap-tap of a crafter carefully shaping a cave of wonder beneath the mountains. Towering stone fortresses in the hills, full of beautiful stonework and ancient runes of power and protection. An abiding commitment to clan and family and caste. These are the common threads of dwarven life. 
 
## Short And Strong

Bold, brave (sometimes to the point of foolhardiness) and hardy, dwarves are renowned for their skill in battle and as artisans of stone and metal. Though Dwarves are short and stocky, averaging 4 to 4 ½ feet, and rarely growing taller than 5 feet, their muscular build means they often weight as much as a human 2 feet taller. They have ruddy complexions, generally dark or red hair, and dark eyes. Dwarven men (and some women) grow long beards, which they braid with intricate ribbons. As dwarves age, their hair, including their beards, begin to gray and turn white, and their faces acquire deep wrinkles, especially around the eyes. Dwarven skin is often very thick and callused, and is usually brown or tan in color.
 
## Bound By Honor And Tradition

Dwarves can live to be hundreds of years old, and like the mountains of their home they endure change stoically, holding tightly to their long traditions and history. Even Dwarves who do not live in their homelands deeply honor their ties to their ancestors, stretching back to the original ancestors of the Dwarven race (the Bahrâzel, or ‘First-Wisest’, the seven original Dwarves, the source of the Dwarves power and worshipped as aspects of the Divine). Many Dwarves can recite family histories going back thousands of years, to the early days of the Taelgar, the triumphs and defeats of the Great Orc Wars, and the bitter memories of the Sundering (when the Dwarven race was divided by conflict, and many Dwarves left in exile and eventually became the Gnomes). This long memory gives Dwarven society tendency to always be looking backwards; for some Dwarves, this becomes a deep nostalgia for the glory days of yore.
 
Individual Dwarves are loyal, true to their word, and typically have a highly developed sense of honor. Dwarves tend to be closed and slow to trust those who are not their friends or kin, but when they do make friends they are friends for life. They are decisive in action, often to the point of stubbornness, but cautious about change. Dwarves also tend toward scrupulously honest in following their code of law: few dwarves will willingly break a dwarven law, whether or not they are in the Dwarven kingdom. Those that do and are caught are outcast from Dwarven society, and must make their way alone in the world bereft of kin and clan.
 
## Dwarven Firstborn and the Living Mountain

Dwarves are one of the Elder races, which means that they are the embodiment of and draw magical power from the mystical founders of their race, the seven Bahrâzel. Dwarves will often call upon the Bahrâzel in times of stress and danger, with a quick prayer for intercession; they are seen as saints and patrons of the race, and semi-divine at least. The connection Dwarves have with the Bahrâzel also allows them to construct runes with magical effects. While in most cases these are small, such as mending a broken item, some legendary Dwarves have been able to use runecasting to create extraordinary magical items, wards, and marks of power.
 
Dwarves’ connection to the Bahrâzel is also expressed through their belief that they are a living part of the mountains: they are a crucial part of the life cycle of mountains and mountains form a crucial part of their spiritual existence. The most sacred site in Dwarven religion is the Heart of the Mountain, the incarnation of the mountains themselves and thought to be the original mythical home of the Bahrâzel themselves. The ritual that leads to the selection of the caste of a young Dwarf, occurring at the age of physical maturity (around 25) but before the age of majority (36), involves a journey to find the Heart of the Mountain. There are no maps, and few people find it in the same place, but all dwarves find it eventually, after wandering through the passages of their people and the natural passages beneath the mountains. The Heart of the Mountain is a massive hall, formed in the shape of a ribcage, pulsating and changing so that no description is ever the same. It is the incarnation of the stone itself, the place where the mountains are alive. In the center of the chamber lies a pool of water, eternally still. When dwarves finds the chamber seeking their caste, they see in the water a reflection of a significant moment in their lives, learning their caste at the same time. At death, dwarves hope to be returned to the Heart of the Mountain and their name is carved upon the walls of the chamber, to live in the mountains in perpetuity.  
 
## Caste and Clan

Dwarven society is strongly hierarchical, and organized around kin, caste, and clan. Family units tend to live close together in large extended families, and any dwarves’ first loyalty is to the matriarch or patriarch of their family. All Dwarves are also a member of a caste, which they are born into but which is not revealed until they seek and find the Heart of the Mountain. The seven castes, derived from the natures of the seven Bahrâzel, are Runemaster, Ruler, Priest, Warrior, Traveler, Stoneworker, and Farmer. When a young Dwarf learns their caste, they will usually apprentice to an elder of the same caste to learn a vocation, often traveling far from home for this purpose. Caste-ties connect Dwarves across clans, and play an important role in keeping Dwarven society peaceful and resolving conflicts between clans. Rare casteless Dwarves (adults who never completed their pilgrimage to the Heart of the Mountain, and thus never learned their caste) challenge the strict traditions of the race and are usually outcasts from Dwarven society. 
 
|   |
|---|
|### Slow To Trust <br><br>Dwarves get along with other races, but are rarely close, trusted friends. They tend to view “younger” races, especially halflings, humans, and kenku, with friendliness but not necessarily much trust.  <br>Dwarves are often close allies with the Goliath, who share their mountain home and a long history of battle against orcs.  <br>Dwarves see elves as elders due respect, although they can tire of the elves haughty attitudes quickly, as Dwarves do not see themselves as children of the world.  <br>Dwarves and Gnomes are long-sundered members of the same originally created race. Living in very different parts of the world, they rarely encounter each other. Dwarves see Gnomes has having betrayed the honor of the race, and tend to react with suspicion or distaste when they first meet. Nonetheless, they are distant siblings and for Dwarves kin is everything, and so they cannot bring themselves to hate the Gnomes.|
 
Dwarven kingdoms stretch deep underground, connecting Dwarves to the mineral wealth of the mountains that is the source of much of their livelihood and trade. Some dwarven kingdoms spread extensively above ground, reaching into the foothills and valleys of their mountain homes. Members of other races, especially halflings, titans, and humans, often live in these above ground settlements harmoniously, yet are rarely treated as a full part of the community. Despite their close knit societies, many dwarves have chosen to live among humans in their cities, where they are often skilled artisans and sought-after as mercenaries or bodyguards. These Dwarves nonetheless maintain ties of clan and caste, and cherish their Dwarven roots. Coming from homes high in the mountains, in kingdoms stretching far underground, many dwarves who venture to the outside world never feel comfortable with wide open spaces, and are particularly wary of boats and the ocean. 
 
## Dwarven Names

A dwarf’s name is revealed to them when they find the Heart of the Mountain, and holds a deep place in the traditions of clan and caste. All dwarf names are used and reused over centuries and revered down the generations. Young dwarves who have not made their pilgrimage yet (and are thus caste-less and nameless) go by diminutive nicknames given by their parents (these names tend to be one syllable and are genderless in Dwarf society).   
**Male Names:** Adrik, Alberich, Baern, Barendd, Brottor, Bruenor, Dain, Darrak, Delg, Eberk, Einkil, Fargrim, Flint, Gardain, Harbek, Kildrak, Morgran, Orsik, Oskar, Rangrim, Rurik, Taklinn, Thoradin, Thorin, Tordek, Traubon, Travok, Ulfgar, Veit, Vondal  
**Female Names:** Amber, Artin, Audhild, Bardryn, Dagnal, Diesa, Eldeth, Falkrunn, Finellen, Gunnloda, Gurdis, Helja, Hlin, Kathra, Kristryd, Ilde, Liftrasa, Mardred, Riswynn, Sannl, Torbera, Torgga, Vistra  
**Child Names:** Adi, Art, Bar, Brot, Dag, Del, Ein, Eld, Gunn, Kat, Kel, Mar, Osk, Ris, Rur, Tak, Tor, Tra, Ulf, Von, Vis  
**Clan Names:** Battlehammer, Boulderlock, Brawnanvil, Cragfire, Deepmine, Fireforge, Frostbeard, Goldborn, Hardcrown, Highkeep, Ironfist, Redbeard, Rockhammer, Sparkhorn, Stronghelm, Stoneaxe
 
## Dwarf Traits

Your dwarf character has an assortment of inborn abilities, due to their nature.  
**Ability Score Increase.** Your Constitution score increases by 2   
**Age.** Dwarves mature at a little more slowly than humans, and are not considered full adults until they reach their age of majority at 25 and make a pilgrimage to the Heart of the Mountain to receive their name and caste. Dwarves have a long lifespan, often reaching 350 - 400 years.   
**Alignment.** Most dwarves are lawful, believing in the benefits of a well-ordered, caste-based society. They tend towards good as well, with a strong sense of honor.  
**Size.** Dwarves stand between 4 and 5 feet tall and average about 150 pounds. Your size is Medium.  
**Speed.** Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Your speed is not reduced by wearing heavy armor (alternatively, if you use optional encumbrance rules, you do not count the weight of armor you are wearing towards your encumbrance).  
**Darkvision.** Accustomed to life underground, you have superior vision in dark and dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.  
**Dwarven Weapon Training.** You have proficiency with the battleaxe, handaxe, throwing hammer, and warhammer.  
**Languages.** You can speak, read, and write Dwarvish and your choice of one [trade tongue](Languages).  
**Dwarven Rune-Casting.** As an adult Dwarf who has completed your pilgrimage to the Heart of the Mountain, you gain an innate ability to use runes to create magical effects, drawing power from your connection to the Bahrâzel (see rules for casteless Dwarves below). To create a rune, you must inscribe an appropriate item, which requires 1 hour of uninterrupted time. This ritual creates a magical conduit through which the power of the Bahrâzel can flow. You may have inscribed at one time a number of runes equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum 1). An inscribed item becomes inert if you die or if the item is destroyed. Your spellcasting ability modifier for rune effects is Intelligence. If needed, your rune save DC is 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier, and your rune attack modifier is your proficiency bonus + your Intelligence modifier. Activating runes as an action, bonus action, or reaction requires speaking words of power, and that the runic item be on your person. As part of this rune-casting feature, you can learn one [Minor Rune](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md) from the options described in the list of [Dwarven Rune Options - Old](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md). Your caste may allow you to learn an additional rune.  
**Castes.** As adult Dwarf, you belong to one of seven castes: Ruler, Runemaster, Priest, Warrior, Traveler, Stoneworker, Farmer. Your caste does not limit your choice of class or profession, although many castes are particularly suited to a few choices. Rather, it reflects your role and place in Dwarven society.

|   |
|---|
|If you are a casteless Dwarf (a young dwarf who has not visited the Heart of the Mountain, or an adult who failed to complete their pilgrimage) you may increase either your Wisdom, Strength, Charisma, or Intelligence score by 1 but do not gain any other abilities. If and when you acquire a caste by completing your pilgrimage, you must choose a caste that grants an increase in your chosen ability score. You gain the abilities of your caste, excluding the ability score increase already taken. You also may select one [Minor Rune](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md) from the [Dwarven Rune Options - Old](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), which you learn.|

**Ruler**  
Rulers are, unsurprisingly, called to lead. This is the rarest caste in dwarf society, and members of the ruler caste are often in positions of power in Dwarven kingdoms (although not all leaders are Rulers). Clan heads, village leaders, and battle commanders are often all Rulers.   
**Ability Score Increase.** Either your Charisma or Wisdom score increases by 1.  
**Leader of Dwarves.** You have Advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to interact with fellow Dwarves.  
**Runes.** As a ruler, you know either the [Rune of Truth](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), the [Rune of Calm](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), or the [Rune of Valor](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md).  
**Runemaster**  
Runemasters have a natural affinity to wield runic magic. Runemasters in Dwarven society often are librarians, historians, or scribes; many are also researchers, or take on roles involving money and trade. Although very rare, powerful rune-mages are almost always Runemasters (but most Runemasters are not powerful magic-wielders). Runemasters are uncommon in Dwarven society, but not as rare as Rulers  
**Ability Score Increase.** Your Intelligence score increases by 1.  
**Runes.** As a runemaster, you learn two additional runes. You may choose any of the runes available from the list of [Dwarven Rune Options - Old](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), however only one of your chosen runes can be a Major Rune.  
**Priest**  
Priests are naturally attuned to the Bahrâzel and through them the Dwarven Gods, and through this connection gain wisdom and insight. While many of the Priest caste are indeed priests of the Dwarven Gods, others are councilors or loremasters (keeping the stories and traditions of the Dwarven race alive). Individuals of the Priest caste often occupy roles in Dwarven society that emphasize a connection to racial history or religion. Priests are uncommon in Dwarven society, but not as rare as Rulers.   
**Ability Score Increase.** Your Wisdom score increases by 1.  
**Favor of the Bahrâzel.** Whenever you make an Intelligence (History or Religion) check related to the Dwarven race, you are considered proficient in the needed skill and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency bonus.  
**Runes.** As a priest, you know either the [Rune of Lore](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), the [Rune of Life](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), the [Rune of Calm](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), the [Rune of Purity](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), or the [Rune of Valor](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md).  
**Warrior**  
Warriors have a natural affinity for the mountains of their homeland, from which they draw strength. Many Warriors indeed join in campaigns, and members of the Warrior caste often see themselves as protectors of Dwarven society and the Dwarven race. Warriors in Dwarven society also frequently take roles that involve a connection to the mountains, such as mining and delving. Warriors, along with Stoneworkers and Farmers, are among the most common castes in Dwarven society.   
**Ability Score Increase.** Your Strength score increases by 2.  
**Dwarven Armor Training.** You have proficiency with light and medium armor.  
**Stoneworker**  
Stoneworkers have a close affinity with creation and creative energy, especially when working with stone, metal, gems, and earth. Many artisans and craftsfolk are Stoneworkers, as are miners, engineers, builders, and stonemasons. Stoneworkers embody the Dwarven spirit of hard work, careful craftsmanship, and skilled mastery. Stoneworkers are among the most common Dwarven castes, along with Farmers and Warriors.   
**Ability Score Increase.** Either your Intelligence or Strength score increases by 1.  
**Stonecunning.** Whenever you make an Intelligence (History) related to the origin of stonework, you are considered proficient in the History skill and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency bonus.  
**Tool Proficiency.** You gain proficiency with the tool of your choice: glassblower’s tools, jeweler’s tools, potter's tools, mason’s tools, or smith’s tools.  
**Runes.** As a stoneworker, you know either the Rune of Stone, the Rune of Fire, or the [Rune of Lore](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md).  
**Farmer**  
Farmers are masters of living things, of nurturing and growth, and of the home. While Farmers are often drawn towards farming and other callings associated with food production, they also are associated with healers, caregivers, educators (especially of younger Dwarves), and teachers.   
**Ability Score Increase.** Your Wisdom score increases by 1.  
**Lifesense.** Whenever you make an ability check to determine the cause of disease, sickness, or other malady in living plants, animals, or creatures, you make that check with Advantage.  
**Tool Proficiency.** You gain proficiency with the tool of your choice: brewer’s supplies, carpenter’s tools, cobbler’s tools, cook’s utensils, leatherworker’s tools, potter’s tools, woodcarver's tools, or weaver’s tools.  
**Runes.** As a farmer, you know either the Rune of Air, the Rune of Water, the [Rune of Life](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md), or the [Rune of Purity](Dwarven%20Rune%20Options%20-%20Old.md)**.**  
**Traveler**  
Travelers are called to explore; this caste is very common among Dwarves living outside their homeland, despite being relatively uncommon overall. Travelers are often traders or diplomats, and are typically more open and trusting of other races than most Dwarves. Travelers who remain in the Dwarven homeland are often merchants, innkeepers, performers, shopkeepers, or artisans, and sometimes explorers who delve deep under the mountain to find new passages, new mines, and new sources of mineral wealth.  
**Ability Score Increase.** Your Charisma score increases by 1.  
**Language Affinity.** You can speak, write, and read one additional language of your choice.  
**Diplomatic.** You gain proficiency in the Persuasion skill.  
**Superior Darkvision.** Your darkvision extends an additional 60 feet.
   

More resources for Dwarven names: [https://thecollaborativegamer.wordpress.com/people/tables-for-creating-fantasy-names/names-dwarves/](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://thecollaborativegamer.wordpress.com/people/tables-for-creating-fantasy-names/names-dwarves/&sa=D&ust=1572917503180000&usg=AFQjCNHO7fLuQOCxB6EDot6OTGLN-0ki8g)