This folder is for explicitly non-canonical information and should never be published. Anything here should be put in one of the following folders:

- Brainstorming: Raw ideas, a place to organize thoughts. Nothing here is canonical, but it might become so. In general, when incorporating this information into a page, it is best to just delete the information.
- Chats and Emails: Raw extracts of emails and discord chats. These should not be modified much, except to edit for clarity.
- Campaigns: Information from non-canonical or semi-canonical campaigns which may be valuable to mine for additional insights. 
- Discussions: "Wikipedia talk" pages for major topics, where we might want to record some of the reasoning behind topics, or have a place to record thoughts. Brainstorming ideas that get rejected can be moved here, if desired. 
- Old Documents: Relatively large chunks of text that is obsolete enough that it is probably better to rewrite, or at least, requires a major project to rewrite it. These can be deleted once rewritten, although again a Discussion page could capture valuable parts.
- Open Questions: Open question pages, designed to list specific unaddressed questions from other major topics. Open questions that are addressed should be removed. But can be moved to Discussion page for posterity.
- Research and Mechanics: Pages that are either real-world research of more about running games and mechanics than worldbuilding (could be a place to share some of my bestiary, for example). Also a good place for shared name lists. 
- **Staging**: A place to put pages that definitely exist (e.g., are mentioned on a page that is fully canonical), but are completely undeveloped and may not be worth developing. Good for things like invented books and scholars mentioned in other pages; or places that definitely exist but don't yet have a good name. Allows for fast renaming of all linked mentioned by updating file name, and useful to ensure consistent naming / avoid mispellings and typos. This is also a good place for pages that definitely exist, but have some complications that need to be resolved, or otherwise have uncertainties that need development to turn into a useful page. 
- Tentative: Explicitly for pages that may or may not exist, but would otherwise be pages elsewhere in the tree. The distinction between tentative and staging or brainstorming is a little arbitrary, but generally anything in tentative should explicitly be uncertain as to whether it exists or not, as opposed to just undeveloped. 