## Land Ownership in Sembara

Land ownership in Sembara is based on a semi-feudal system where the noble peers (barons, dukes, monarchs) control large swathes of land, either directly, as part of their demesne, or indirectly, via manors. Land titles are recorded and tracked by royal or manorial registries, and a legal system exists to enforce property rights and inheritance. Land title ultimately originates in one of two ways:

* *crownland* is land ultimately under the stewardship of a sovereign, either a duke or the monarch. New crownland is created by conquest, or in the aftermath of disaster, when a sovereign simply declares that some land is now theirs. Although most crownland is not actually held by the sovereign, in certain circumstances it reverts to the sovereign
* *folkland* on the other hand is land held by ancient right of occupation and improvement

Substantially all of the land within the six duchies of Sembara is crownland, and after the disruptions of the Great War and the Blood Years, various parts of western and southern Sembara have become crownland. The major areas were folkland is still common is in the highland regions west and north of the duchies of Arnsbury, Chemin, and Telham. Many lizardfolk settlements are also folkland, but not all.

Although numerous parts, especially of western Sembara, are unimproved and unsettled crownland, the vast majority of settled land is held within a manor, which is the basic unit of  land organization. Within the manorial village, the agricultural land is controlled by the lord, or in some cases, a castellan for baron or duke. Arranged in open field systems, each peasant family controls one or more long strips of land, and has rights to the common woodlots and pasture. The legal arrangements between peasants and lords are complex but there are three main models:  

- Freehold, where the peasant owns land rights outright. This land can be sold or subleased by the peasant, but the peasant still owes the lord an annual manorial tax
- Leasehold, where the peasant leases the land from the lord. Often these leases run for a long time, but usually cannot be inherited without permission of the lord, and the land cannot be sold by the peasant. The peasant owes annual rents, either in coin or a portion of the harvest. The remaining harvest can be sold for profit or used to support the peasant’s family
- Laborhold, where the peasant leases the land from the lord in exchange for labor. This is usually a life tenure where the peasant owes the lord some number of days a year of labor for as long as they hold the land. This obligation comes with the land, and if the land is sold or transferred, the obligation is as well. Usually the land cannot be subleased, although the peasant may abandon the land, and a peasant may hire a laborer to perform their labor service if desired.  

Within the manorial village itself, the houses are usually held as leasehold, although some peasants and especially inns, merchants, and others may freehold their property. These various classifications come with the land, rather than the person, and so a specific peasant family might hold some land as leasehold and other land as laborhold. Some rich peasants might even own significant laborhold land and pay laborers to perform their labor service.
 
In the years after the Blood Years, when labor was scarce, laborhold declined substantially, and today most land is held leasehold.

Note that folkland is always held freehold, and the profits from folkland cannot be taxed or otherwise encumbered by the lord. However, land registries and deeds do not record folkland transactions, and it cannot easily be sold. Over the years, it is relatively common for land in the highlands, long considered folkland, to be given to the lord, usually the Sembaran sovereign but occasionally an ambitious baron, as a way of registering the land and gaining legal property rights. Through this mechanism, much of the highlands has become crownland, although in a somewhat patchwork way, where even within one village only a certain number of plots may be considered crownland. 

Land registries exist in most manorial villages, although in times of trouble records can be lost and recordkeeping can be spotty. The boundaries of manors sometimes shift inadvertently, and occupation on the ground can matter more than a fading legal document. 

One exception to the slow disappearance of folkland is lizardfolk communities, which always consider their land folkland. Lizardfolk land is therefore considered ‘outside’ the manor, and may not be alienated from the lizardfolk community. Some lizardfolk may, in their own person, own land freehold or leasehold, if for example they have a substantial trading, but lizardfolk settlements are broadly considered folkland. If a lizardfolk community wishes to grow and claim more land, usually they negotiate specifically with the lord, the baron, or perhaps even the duke to extend the boundaries of the ‘lizardfolk demesne’ beyond whatever was previously agreed. This may end with additional land being alienated from the crown to the lizardfolk, which may come with specific financial or labor benefits (create irrigation canals and maintain them for 20 years) or whatever, but it is not a traditional property transaction but more a negotiation between sovereign powers. These types of transactions must be approved by the sovereign who controls the crownland, using the monarch or sometimes a duke.

Halflings rarely own land at all, and even more rarely outside of cities, although the occasional halfling innkeeper or other landowner would be subject to the same land tenure laws as a human. However, halflings have a traditional ‘right of the commons’ and are broadly considered ‘members of the community’ everywhere in Sembara, giving them rights to woodlots, common pastures, and camping rights, as well as right of trespass across most lands.

Dwarves are more likely than halflings to own land, but rarely outside of towns and cities. When they do own land, it follows the same laws and principles as human land above.